the market probably is a bit cautious
but I think is not expecting too much.
>> If the AI story gets questioned, then
the whole thing probably starts to slow
down.
>> It's not just risky assets. It's not
just the AI right tail.
>> We can play different trends here in
different ways that aren't as overpriced
as the overall market.
>> The interesting part is the only trend
is all systems go. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg Savannah
starts right now coming into Monday,
taking down the temperature.
>> I think we're going to be fine with
China. Look, I have a great relationship
with President Xi. He's a very tough
man. He's a very smart man. He's a great
leader for their country. He's a great
leader. and I have a great relationship
with and I think we'll get it set.
>> President Donald Trump attempting to put
a lid on rising tension with China as
reports suggest the Pentagon is looking
to stockpile critical minerals. JP
Morgan is making a $ 1.5 trillion
promise to help boost economic security.
That effort is still building.
>> And that news just crossing uh the wires
currently with JP Morgan adding $500
billion to the total that it already was
planning to help finance. They're using
about $10 billion of their own capital
to make equity investments in some of
these crucial companies. It comes at a
time where every private asset manager
has been trying to get into this field
because this is something that clearly
is a priority for the United States. And
in many ways, the US is finding itself
at its back foot because of its reliance
on China for these rare earth minerals.
>> There is a fantastic stock market proxy
MP materials. Check it out in the
pre-market. It's higher by more than 11%
capturing the tension between the US and
China. So, I get the framing right now
this morning. The president's backed
away from the threat on Friday. Equity
futures bounce back, but the tension
over critical rare earth minerals,
that's going nowhere anytime soon.
>> Absolutely not. And it's why you see the
administration doubling down when it
comes to what is going on with the
Pentagon and making sure that there's
billions of dollars that they can use to
go into this space as well as taking
direct equity stakes into these
companies. JD Vance, the vice president
over the weekend said it's going to be a
delicate dance and that is what is going
to be between now and November 1st. The
president said on Air Force One from now
until November 1st, it's an eternity for
him.
>> This is quite a quote from JP Morgan's
Jamie Diamond. Check it out. It has
become painfully clear that the United
States has allowed itself to become too
reliant on unreliable sources of
critical minerals, products, and
manufacturing.
>> This builds on what he's been talking
about for a while. Back in 2023, he
wrote that US supply chains for critical
products and minerals quote must be
domestic or only open to completely
friendly allies or partners. This is
something that has been on the docket
for quite a while. How much is this
going to be co-investments with the US
government in some way sort of coalesing
around this idea that yes, the US is
investing, but so too need some of the
big corporate partners.
>> Take out what this means for the stock
market and advanced technology in these
chips. Magnets, rare earths are needed
for virtually every single weapon
system. China owns them, processes them,
refineses them, and sells them. The
entire supply chain is built around
Beijing.
>> The futures bounced back this morning,
hired by 1.3% following the biggest
one-day loss going back to April and
Friday's session. Equity futures firming
up. Coming up this hour, Peter Cheer of
Academy Securities with stocks bouncing
back. Norman Rule of CSIS as the Israel
Hamas peace deal begins. and Sonia
Martin of DZ Bank on the dollar's safe
haven status. We begin this hour with
stocks rising as President Donald Trump
takes down the temperature with China.
Peter Cherv Academy writing maybe this
is it and we are back to what passes for
normal but there is little to indicate
China's stance has changed at all. This
escalation was not started by the US it
was started by China. Peter joins us now
for more. Pete, good morning.
>> Morning John.
>> I think your framing is really really
important. Can you deescalate something
you didn't start?
>> Right. All right. So, I think there's
two competing narratives and I could not
be any happier than with the
announcements that you just made that JP
Morgan said. Right. I think the world is
at the early stages of almost
an ESG type moment, but it's about rare
earth critical minerals. We've been
calling it production for security at
Academy Securities for the last 6
months. We've been trying to catch that
on. No one seems to be listening. It's
been great for the portfolio of
companies that we've had. And I think
this is just going to expand and expand,
right? Everyone's going to look and say,
"We need to do these things ourselves.
We need to do that." I think that's part
of why China's actually ramping things
up is they see the government finally
taking some steps. So their bargaining
chip disappears or dissipates over time.
I think they're going to put pressure
on. So I do think we're going to have
economic friction, tariffs with China.
So that's going to be a bit of a way on
some parts of the market. And the other
part, anything that's production for
security, pharma, tech, ships, rarers,
critical minerals, natural gas, all
those things should do very, very well.
We need to produce electricity. We know
it. I think that's finally catching on
and it might be even global. Pete, just
build this out. China wants to make this
transition painful. That's what you're
seeing here.
>> Yeah, I think China wants to make this
transition painful. I think that's their
card. They're trying to build up their
own chip industry. So, I think they're
willing to disconnect. It's up to us.
And what was exciting today, even on the
way in, you're listening to more and
more European countries, I think, come
to this realization. Why did we give up
our entire industrial base? Like, we
might not need to make socks. There
might be things that we don't need to
make, but Germanmanium rarest, and we
need to produce electrons. We need to
produce electricity. I think this is
just a giant wakeup call.
>> Well, it raises the question of how much
pain there's actually going to be. Mike
Wilson over at Morgan Stanley saying
that there could be something like an
11% draw down uh for the S&P should this
really proliferate. It doesn't seem like
that's that much if you really think
about the auto industry, the smartphone
industry, all of these key areas that
depend on these rare earth minerals.
>> Yeah. And I think what we'll probably
see even within that is a big shift to
what areas really do well. And I think
as people scour their portfolios for,
you know, I think last time I was on, we
talked about using AI to just go through
and search for companies under $10
billion involved in these industries, I
think you can expand that. This is going
to be bigger companies, people looking
at that. People are going to walk to the
White House and say, "Hey, how do we
work with you?" I think this is really a
snowball effect. So those areas will do
really well. And I think finally, I dare
say it, but I think the Russell 2000 can
now start really outperforming the
NASDAQ 100 because that's who's going to
benefit from this real big focus on
domestic production. And we actually saw
glimmers of that on Friday. I'm curious
though going forward, who stands the
greatest pain? Is it China or is it the
US? Given that China has shown a
willingness to push its companies, tech
companies away from using US chips and
the US sees its entire manufacturing
base disappear when it doesn't have
access to these elements.
>> One thing that's clear to me is Chinese
people will bear greater pain. So I
think that's an issue as we face this,
right? Is Xi can push on his people and
force them to deal with stuff I think
much longer than President Trump can. So
I if this drags on and gets ugly, we are
at a disadvantage there. Having said
that, you know, I think China's making a
big bet on their own ability to develop
their chip industry, develop AI, they've
got the electricity. Will they be
successful? I think they've got the
money pouring into it. They've got the
engineers, but China tends to go in a
certain path and if that path is the
wrong direction, they have to go back to
square one. Whereas we have, you know,
all these entrepreneurial aspects. We're
developing in so many different ways and
things bubble up to the surface. So
that's been our competitive advantage.
So I don't think it's a bygone
conclusion that China can succeed. We
are going to need to push regulation,
deregulation. We need to do these
things. I think Europe has to do the
same. If we can do this all right, I
think we win.
>> How long does it take to build what
China has in terms of the critical
minerals and the supply chain around it?
>> You know, I think reality a decade. I
think we can do a lot in the, you know,
coming year, two years. I think the one
thing this administration is going to
have to back off on a little bit is
their anti-solar stance. I think solar,
the only way we're going to get
electricity really ramping up quickly,
solar, we're probably going to have to
use clean coal, which I know the
president's a fan of, I think natural
gas becomes a big source, but we also
need to be planning and ramping up
nuclear and production for things that
will come online maybe 5 to 10 years
from now. But it was we set these things
in motion. I think it was the start of
that that scared China a little bit is
why China is being a little bit more
aggressive. We need to follow through on
this though.
>> So, what is this relationship like in
the in the meantime?
>> I think it's a lot of friction. I think
it's a lot of friction. And I think
people trying to game each other trying
to figure out ways around it. Hopefully,
we've stockpiled some of these.
Hopefully, we can go through periods of
negotiation where China decides to sell
it. But I think this is going to have to
be, again, we almost talked about this
as a Manhattan project type moment where
we need to focus on this desperately.
And again, it can't just be us. Europe
has to be looking at this, right? All
these countries that kind of gave away
their ability to produce what they need
for security have to revisit that. And
it feels like we've made a lot of
progress in the past week. I don't know
why it took four years of us ranting and
you know complaining about this but
finally something's happening.
>> You hear say 10 years and I hear more
than one political cycle and we need to
make sure Europe is in line. Sure. But
we also need to make sure that this is a
bipartisan effort both left and right.
Refining these critical minerals is
dirty. It's messy. And we've allowed the
Chinese to do that almost precisely for
that reason. It's a messy process. It
pollutes a lot. Do we have the
commitment on both the left and right to
park the green agenda and do what you
think we need to do?
>> I think we're getting there because part
of this is we closed our eyes. Oh well,
if China's doing it, it's not really
dirty or it doesn't bother us right now.
Some of this is going to be locally
dirty, but a lot of it's just pollutes
the entire environment. And I'm willing
to bet that if we put the effort in, we
can do it cleaner. It'll be more costly
to do it here, but we can control the
process. Why would we let China do this?
Why would you go and inspect a factory
and China say, "Oh, this seems
reasonably clean." knowing that the
second you turn your back, leave the
country, they're probably not operating
at that level of efficiency. So, I think
again, we should control our own
destiny. Yes, some of this is dirty, but
it's being dirty somewhere. Again, I've
been really happy the number of charts
I've seen about CO2 production and
showing what Europe's done, well,
China's done this. So, yes, it's bad
that, you know, we've been trying to
make these steps, but if China's out
there not caring, we're losing. So, I
think this is something that people are
getting on board with. I think Europe's
going to be, you know, slower to embrace
this, but I think at least the seeds are
there. So maybe they're a year behind
us. I think we're getting close to that
point where the US just realizes we
cannot be dependent on these things that
are super critical and it's easy to
forget, you know, these tiny little
pieces of tiny component. If we don't
have them, the product doesn't get
finished. I I think that's where we're
headed.
>> So let's talk capital allocation. You
touched on it. You buy the constraints,
things like critical minerals, maybe
energy more broadly. You sell the
potential over capacity. Where is that
potential over capacity now? you know, I
I think we maybe in the data centers,
maybe that's where we're looking at
maybe some of the consumer credits
things, some of those there's there's
issues there, but I I think so you can
be maybe a little bit underweight. I
think you want to own some of Europe. I
think Europe is is it's probably a bit
early. You're for this particular
bandwagon, but I think this bandwagon is
really just starting to take off. It's
going to be the equivalent of you're
going to see fund launch after fund
launch, ETF launch after ETF launch
trying to capture this, right? It is the
zeitgeist of the moment finally. And
just like you may have shook your head
and wondered why some of these things
went on too long. I think that's the
moment we're going to have here. I've
sold some of my positions. I really
regret selling anything in this space
and probably have to chase it and buy
back because I do think we've had this
sea change. Can I just finish on private
credit?
>> Yeah, we've had some events more
recently and some of these stock market
public market proxies for what's
happening in private credit. KKR,
Apollo, Blackstone, they're down around
20% since middle of September. Those
stocks have been absolutely hammered.
Are you worried about these credit
events becoming a broader economic
story?
>> At this stage, I'm not really. I think
some of these with Taloria, it's
probably tied to some of the immigration
policies because a lot of their clients
may have been forced either out of the
country or out of jobs. So, I think
these are one-off things. I think
private credits this, you know, whole
easy thing to be a big boogeyman and oo
what's going on in private credit? You
know, I believe since the GFC, it's
become a cottage industry to look for
the next credit bubble. I just don't see
it in private credit. I don't see the
leverage on leverage within the system.
I think most of the deals have been
decent. These companies will negotiate.
We'll go through a lot. There will be
hiccups, but when I talked to the
investors, I don't think people walked
in and said, "Oh, I'm going to get 10%
risk-free." I think people understand
there's some risk in this. The overall
portfolio effect will be good. I would
be much more cautious of some of the
smaller newer entrance who may not see
the big deal flows the big people saw,
right? The big large dealers, they have
all the deal flow. They saw the deals
they wanted. They could pick and choose.
They had leverage. They had the
negotiating power. I don't see this
becoming systemic. though I am watching
BIZD or ZD sorry or ZD I guess confused
which country I'm in after the last week
but um you know it is a BDC ETF that is
lower than it was back in April that's a
bit concerning so you know you can't
ignore what the market's telling you so
I'm looking at that I think it's
probably overdone though
>> I get confused too the Brits say zed and
we say Z here in America Peter Channab
Pete thank you sir appreciate it I'm not
sure that the people over at Apollo KKR
Blackstone will want their businesses
reduced to the fate of say first brands
and uh the likes of Triricolor, but
ultimately that's the situation, the way
they've been traded over the last few
weeks.
>> People are worried and they are worried
that it's been untested through a credit
cycle. And you raised a point that this
10year cycle is more than one political
cycle in terms of building out some of
these resources. It also potentially is
more than one credit cycle. And a lot of
what's going to finance this is not the
politics, it's the credit. And I wonder
how much of that credit's coming from
some of these private asset managers. So
these are connected stories in a very
deep way.
>> There's a better mood this morning.
Stocks are higher by 1.3% on the S&P 500
with an update on stories worldwide.
With your Bloomberg brief, here's Yahara
Arand. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump Trump
speaking at Israel's Knesset soon
following the release of all 20 living
Israeli hostages from Gaza. You can see
live pictures there of that. Under the
terms of the ceasefire agreement, Israel
will free almost 2,000 Palestinian
prisoners and has pulled back troops
from most populated areas in Gaza and
agreed to allow more aid into the
territory. Meanwhile, the Trump
administration is signaling it's open to
doing a deal with China days after
announcing new 100% tariffs effective
November 1st. The relationship between
the two countries soured last week when
China announced new export controls on
rare earths. President Trump posted on
social media, quote, "Don't worry about
China. It will all be fine." And as you
guys mentioned at the top of the show,
JP Morgan announced a plan to invest
$1.5 trillion in US security industries
over the next 10 years. The campaign
will ramp up the amount of capital,
resources, and personnel that the bank
already dedicates to a variety of
sectors such as rare earth minerals,
pharmaceutical precursors, plus ventures
developing defense, aerospace, and
energy technologies. That's when we're
grief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara later this hour. Up next on
the program, attempting to deescalate.
>> I think we're going to be fine with
China. Look, I have a great relationship
with President Xi. He's a very tough
man. He's a very smart man. He's a great
leader for their country. He's a great
leader and I have a great relationship
with him. I think we'll get it set.
>> That conversation up next with John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Bank earning season almost upon us. Your
week ahead looks like this. Tons through
Tuesday and Wednesday. Tuesday, JP
Morgan, Goldman City. Wows. Wednesday,
Bank of America and Morgan Stanley. Into
this, a market is bouncing back. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 higher following
the biggest 1day loss since April on
Friday. Equity futures this morning high
by 1.3% on the S&P on the Nasdaq up by
1.8%. Max Kentner of HSBC the big bull
just published in moments ago. We think
renewed tariff wos create another buying
opportunity
>> and other people seem to agree as you
can see from the uh market reaction and
clearly that's been the tone that we've
heard in a lot of different notes
because guess what? Everyone thinks that
there's going to be a resolution.
Everyone thinks that ultimately this
will go back to the same place that it
was before which is money print are
going to go.
>> It's the top story for markets
worldwide. Not that but trade under
surveance this morning attempting to
deescalate.
>> I think we're going to be fine with
China. Look, I have a great relationship
with President Xi. He's a very tough
man. He's a very smart man. He's a great
leader for their country. He's a great
leader and I have a great relationship
with him. I think we'll get it set. I
know what happened. I really understand
what happened and I'm not even saying
he's wrong. But then we met him with
something much tougher than what he did
to us.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Trump administration signaling openness
to a deal. President Trump saying
President Xi just had a bad moment
threatening export curbs on rare earths.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Good morning Tyler.
>> Hey John. Good morning. President Trump
hinting here that there is an off-ramp.
Going on to tell reporters aboard Air
Force One, that November 1st, that
effective date for a higher tariff rate
is an eternity away. In his words,
signaling that there is this openness
for a deal. Though worth mentioning that
the White House maintains that that
threat of an additional 100% levy on
Chinese goods does remain on the table.
Now, we did get a statement from China's
commerce ministry yesterday, which said
it is prepared to retaliate. Of course,
escalating that threat of a potential
tit fortat trade war here, but went on
to say that the threat of additional
tariffs isn't the way to deal with
Beijing. Of course, tensions flared last
week when we saw China move to unveil
these new export curbs on critical and
rare earth minerals. And as you've been
discussing, they really do have a grip
on the global supply chain. They
accounted for about 70% of global rare
earth supply last year alone. Now,
President Trump himself has also said
that there could be some export controls
when it comes to US software exports as
well as threatened to halt certain
aircraft parts supplies. But I would say
at the moment the most immediate impact
seems to be that it is throwing that
planned meeting between President Trump
and Chinese President Xi Jinping
potentially into flux. They're set to
meet at the end of this month on the
sidelines of the Apex summit in South
Korea. and John. Of course, critical and
rare earth minerals are supposed to be
at the top of that agenda list for the
two leaders to discuss. But I will also
point out that the White House has
repeatedly said that soybeans will also
be at the top of that list. And I bring
it up because new data out this morning
says that China's imports of soybeans
reached a record high last month, but
that did not include any US supplies.
>> That right there is a sore point, that's
for sure. Tyler, thank you. Tyler
Kendall down in Washington DC with us
for more, John Lieieber of Eurasia
Group. John, welcome to the program,
sir. Welcome back as always. John, do
you see this as positioning to negotiate
or actually setting policy?
>> Uh, it's a ne I mean, you know, the
Americans and the Chinese set a policy
that each other didn't like and you got
a round of retaliation from both and now
they'll back off. And I think Trump's
messaging this weekend was pretty clear
that he does not want to see this spiral
out of control. He says these very nice
things about Xiinping because he wants
to meet with him. And what we see is
that both sides, the leaders are really
committed to this path of deescalation
and this path of getting together at
this ape meeting, which you know, as
Trump said, November one is an eternity
from now in Trump time. And what's going
to happen is they'll negotiate their way
to calm down and make that meeting
happen. And we think the path here is
going to be deescalatory going forward.
>> What can we see out of this meeting
then? Who holds the leverage going in?
>> Yeah, it's interesting. I mean, I think
genuinely both sides seem to think they
hold the leverage. The Chinese clearly
have figured out this choke point that
can really hurt the American military by
denying them access to certain types of
rare earth exports. And you see how
sensitive that choke point is with the
over-the-top response from President
Trump on Friday, uh, threatening 100%
tariff, threatening cut off airplane
parts, and threatening to figure out
other things they can do we don't even
know about yet. So, I think the Chinese
have definitely hit a nerve here. And
when it comes to the rare earths,
clearly have the leverage to hurt the
Americans and also, frankly, seem a
little bit more prepared to weather the
storm of a long trade war. We have to
remember, of course, that Trump, you
know, the original taco trade was Trump
backing off of the liberation day China
tariffs and, you know, I think that does
suggest the US can only withstand so
much pain here. So, I would say the
Chinese have the advantage, but the
Trump administration can play, you know,
can punch back pretty hard.
>> Is it really taco? I was reminded over
the weekend what Ethan Harris said in
the summer, which is Trump always tries
again. We do have higher tariff levels,
much higher than we had a year ago. Is
this him just trying again on trying to
get a better deal with China?
>> Well, I mean, you kind of have to hand
it to Trump. He did sneakily uh slide in
this massive, you know, five or 6x
increase in the average effective tariff
rate for the United States and the S&Ps
at all-time highs. So, he has done what
he said he was going to do by increasing
tariff rates to around 15%. Um, and you
know, but he does he he he's clearly not
willing to do the things that will cause
the most pain to the US economy. And in
that sense, I think the Chinese know
that they have a bit more leverage
because he tends to respond with these
threats that are a little bit outsized
relative to what he's actually able to
deliver on.
>> So this is interesting, John, because we
had Peter Sheir on earlier saying, "This
time is different." And it feels
different because it's initiated by
China and you have the capital markets
increasingly moving towards supporting
this idea of a greater degree of
domestic reliance on rare earth's
minerals. Are you saying that we're not
there yet? That essentially it can't be
that different and there has to be the
heat taken down because right now the US
economy can't keep going without the
products from China.
>> Well, it's not I mean the US economy is
affected. Yes, absolutely. I think over
time what you're going to see is
companies innovate their way around this
choke point the Chinese have discovered
around rare earth so that they aren't
reliant on the China for them. But the
real sensitive piece for the United
States is how incredibly dependent their
military supply chain is on these
Chinese rare earths. And that is the
important factor for Donald Trump and
why he cannot tolerate the list of
restrictions that the Chinese put out
last week. Now I think it's important to
put the Chinese restrictions in context
here. The US just two weeks ago expanded
their own export controls to affect a
wide range of new Chinese companies that
are now not allowed to get access to
certain US technologies. The Chinese in
our view thought they were just
retaliating proportionally to that. The
Americans saw the Chinese retaliation as
an escalation and that's why we are
where we are today. But it's the
military that's the sensitive issue, not
the US economy when it comes to these
rear. As President Trump deals with a
lot of international issues, I'm just
wondering how it complicates the issue
that the US government is closed that uh
it's shuttered and that there still
isn't necessarily a sense or a path for
how it can get reopened.
>> Yeah, good question. And I think one of
the fascinating things here is how it
seems to make no difference whatsoever
that the US is uh is closed down. You
know, they did release their latest
rounds of export controls, the US did
right before the shutdown began. So
maybe you think that was because um they
were hurrying to get out the door. I
don't I don't know. Um and you know, I
don't really think that complicates the
fixing this issue that much, though. You
know, there's been an enormous, you
know, majority of federal workers right
now are are still on the job um because
they've been deemed essential. And
there's just been, you know, the Trump
administration is taking very broad
discretion in what they can people can
do. The workers just can't can't get
paid for it. But that's a problem if
you're a federal worker, not if you're
trying to enact policy.
>> Hey, John, I appreciate your time as
always. Thank you, sir. John Lee with
the of your Asia Group. Friday was a
very interesting stress test for this
market and very different to the price
action we saw back in April. If you
think about what happened with the bond
market, I know the bond market shut
today for Columbus Day. Happy Columbus
Day, particularly to the Italian
community here in New York, which often
celebrates that, including yourself, an
Marie, and I guess me too included. I'm
on a little bit of a tangent here.
Forgive me. But the fact that the bond
market rallied on Friday compared to
what happened in April, was a bit of a
tale. And it was the greatest rally that
we've seen going back to August 1st when
we got that payrolls report. So it gives
you a sense of people looking more to a
support frankly for the bond market
rather than some sort of sell-off.
>> Equity futures this morning high up by
1.3%. Up next, the former senior US
intelligence official Norman Rule as the
Israel Hamas peace deal begins.
Happy birthday to the bull market. A
threeyear run. Anniversary was
yesterday, October 12th, 2022. We've had
an 80% plus move on the S&P 500 over
that period and we bounced back this
morning. The rally resumes up by 1.3% on
the S&P and the NASDAQ 100 up by 1.9.
What a move era raising some of Friday's
losses. Thank you to Jessica Menson over
in Bloomberg News for breaking down some
of the numbers. $28 trillion in value
and to this index over the past 3 years.
Nvidia up by 1,500%
over that period.
>> If you can remember, it goes back to
when Open AI was launched, the idea of
chat GPT. And suddenly it revolutionized
the idea of exactly what artificial
intelligence could do to the workforce.
And suddenly you have seen those names
absolutely skyrocket and continue with
the gains yesterday or on Friday I
should say. Those were the ones that led
things down. Those are the ones that are
leading things up today as everyone
tries to buy the dip.
>> Nvidia up by 3.4%. More on that story a
little bit later as we count you down to
the opening bow 3 hours away. With your
morning movers, let's cross back over to
Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We are seeing shares of US rare
earth miners climbing. MP materials up
10.7%. USA rare earths also up after
President Trump of course threatened a
new 100% tariff on China fueling trade
tensions. comes just as China tightened
its grip on its critical minerals. So,
these domestic rare earth miners are
rising on the idea that they'll benefit
if China US trade tensions continue to
escalate. And moving on to Nvidia and
AMD also rebounding this morning. AMD up
nearly 4%. Nvidia up 3% after Nvidia
fell 5% on Friday. also related to
President Trump's tariff threat since
these semiconductors of course are
caught right in the middle of this trade
spat and amid the riskoff mood on Friday
most major cryptocurrencies including
Bitcoin fell that made stocks like Robin
Hood fall on Friday as well but we are
seeing a rebound now in the pre-market
up 3.7%
John
>> Yahara thank you thanks for the update
more from Yihara later this hour on a
radar this morning President Donald
Trump softening his stance in the US
China trade standoff after threatening a
100% tariff on imports. The president
posting on Truth Social, "Don't worry
about China. It will all be fine."
Elsewhere, Vice President JD Vance
warning the painful job cuts are coming
if the government shutdown is not
resolved. Vance telling Fox News the
longer the standoff continues, the
deeper the cuts will be. And finally,
all remaining living Israeli hostages
have been freed from Gaza under a US
brokered peace deal. The ceasefire,
including a swap for nearly 2,000 jailed
Palestinians. President Trump is in
Israel and is set to address parliament
over the last 30 minutes or so.
>> Absolutely historic moment. And the
president when he addresses the Knesset
is going to say this is the historic
dawn of a new Middle East. Not only do
we have the remaining living hostages
back in Israel, you do have hundreds of
Palestinians from the West Bank now also
being um released. On top of that, he's
going to go on to an unprecedented peace
summit in Egypt. And that is really
going to cement potentially what the
next phase of the ceasefire, this
agreement could mean.
>> Let's head over to Jerusalem and catch
up with Blindberg's Ollie Kirk. Ollie,
the Israeli leader speaking right now in
the Knesset. The President Donald Trump
about to speak in just a moment. Just
frame this moment for us. How important
is for the people of the region and
ultimately also for the leadership of
these two individuals?
Yeah, Jonathan, it's hard to actually
put into words the sort of significance
of this moment for the Israeli people
who, you know, since the beginning of
the war on October 7th, more than two
years from now, have been awaiting the
return of the hostages who, as of this
moment, are no longer in Hamas custody,
which really, no matter what happens
next for the Israelis, is the end of one
of the most bitter parts of what has
been an incre one of the darkest
chapters really um in Israeli history,
certainly in modern Israeli history. And
I think it's summarized in some ways in
some of what we heard from the speaker
of the Knesset speaking a little bit
earlier introducing uh President Trump
the thank yous all around from Trump
from the team. We were hearing chants
Trump throughout the parliament but
saying that basically the American
President Donald Trump is not going to
be remembered just as an American
president but as a giant of Jewish
history and will be remembered 1,000
years from now. So that is sort of the
emotion um and sort of the sentiment
that is being felt by the Israelis. I
mean, Donald Trump is easily the most
popular person uh in Israel right now.
That is evidence even before you land in
Israel. As I when I arrived a couple
days ago, looking out the window of the
plane, you see a skyscraper, Israeli
flag, American flag underneath. Thank
you. You get on the road to drive from
uh Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. These are
roads that are lined with Israeli flags.
Every third flag um as of Friday night
is an American flag. And that is very
much the sentiment um among the Israelis
here within the parliament. Of course,
Benjamin Netanyahu got a massive
applause as well, but the sort of um the
sort of legacy for Benjamin Netanyahu
and the broader picture for Ben Benjamin
Netanyahu is much more complicated. He,
yes, has gotten a boost in popularity,
having managed to sort of broker this
deal alongside Donald Trump. But you saw
it from Steve Whit speaking in hostage
square a couple of days ago before
literally hundreds of thousands of
people. Every time Trump's name came up,
chance of of cheering for Trump, Trump,
Trump, Benjamin Netanyahu names came up,
it was booing across the board. Now, we
should say that is a specific subset of
the uh Israeli population, but that is
sort of broadly speaking what these two
leaders are looking at today as we await
to hear from the president of the United
States speaking before the Knesset, the
first American president to do so since
2008 under George W. Bush.
>> Ollie, thank you. Stay close. Of course,
Ole Crook there in Jerusalem building on
this historic story. Norman Rule, the
former senior US intelligence official
writing the following. The Middle East
continues to pose many challenges, but
the president's approach reshuffled the
strategic deck, offering opportunities
and leaving the US the undisputed major
power in the region. Norm joins us now
for more. Norm Wickoff Kushner, the
president of the United States. Norm,
what made a difference here?
Well, we've got a form a president who
spent uh the first 10 months of his
administration uh developing a new
policy for the Middle East. a policy
that focused on constraining Iran uh
Iran's nuclear program, Iran's proxies,
uh providing Israel with uh unalloied
support, but also building uh very
strong relations with a variety of Arab
partners, uh uh resetting relations with
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates,
but also maintaining strong relations
with Qatar, and ensuring strong
relations with Turkey and Egypt. And
together this provided an architecture
that enabled the Trump administration to
speak with pretty much everyone that uh
needed to be brought to the table, but
also to provide pressure on all of those
parties through those channels. And then
he used uh unorthodox approaches uh Mr.
WhitF and Mr. Kushner. And I have uh
dealt with Mr. Kushner in the past and
uh he's a very sober and hardworking
individual. And we we've seen
extraordinary results. We should not
over be it not understate the tectonic
nature of this moment.
>> Norm was it the strategy behind this
Trump team that really changed it? We
spoke to almost Hawkstein on Friday who
was an individual that worked under
Biden and said this deal was on the
table in January. What's changed in the
nine months?
>> Well, aspects of this deal are always
were always going to be on the table. I
mean, the idea that there would be a
prisoner exchange uh uh of a release of
Palestinian prisoners, the release of of
hostages, that there would be some sort
of a of a a disarmament of Hamas, that
was going to be true no matter what
administration was going to be in power.
But the idea that you would bring
pressure upon the parties to uh uh uh uh
make this happen, I don't think that was
going to be achievable in the Biden
administration because of the nature of
their relationship with the players in
the region and uh the Trump
administration had a very different
approach and that approach made this
happen. So we should be clear the Biden
administration's approach to the region
was unlikely to achieve this result and
the Trump administration did this in 10
months. Norm, when it comes to what
comes next, there's going to be this
unprecedented peace conference in Egypt.
What do you expect that will come of
that? Will we get more information on
what phase two looks like when it comes
to Gaza?
>> This is an extraordinary conference and
in of itself, this is this is unusual.
20 nations, the president of Indonesia
is is showing up. Uh uh you've got 20
nations dealing with Mahmud Abbas who uh
has not been to uh uh uh uh Israel in
some time. You've got the prime minister
of Egypt who has been invited and may
show up nonetheless at the end of this
important uh uh holiday.
Uh if it that happens, that would be the
first time he has been in uh Egypt in in
quite a while. If he that the Israeli
prime minister attends that would be the
first time he would be meeting with some
of these countries that remember there
are countries attending this that do not
have relations with uh uh with Israel.
There are and this would be the Israeli
prime minister attending with prime
president President Mahmud Abbas uh uh
someone he has refused to recognize. So
this would be an opportunity for
Netanyahu and Abbas to in essence set
the stage for that second uh uh effort,
that second phase also for these
countries to identify what support
they're going to provide and for the
president to pull them together and uh
start that process. And it is critical
that the security that this aid be put
in place to provide the Palestinian
people with the with the humanitarian
and security architecture they need to
to restore their their lives. Norman,
just to that point, you were talking
about whether BB Netanyahu, the prime
minister of Israel, will be going. His
office said this morning thanked
President Trump for the invitation, but
said he won't be able to attend due to
the beginning of the Jewish holiday this
evening. So, we'll see whether he
eventually makes it there, but right
now, it doesn't seem like it's the case.
And I'm just wondering if you parse this
out, is this coalescing of powers in the
region going to be helpful to bringing
Israel back into the international fold,
or is still the odd man out? Is it going
to take a lot for them to regain some of
their previous reputation?
>> Well, again, we'll we'll see how long
the conference lasts and if at the end
of the holidays the prime minister is
able to attend. We need to see what the
prime minister's politics are like. If
the uh uh hard right uh becomes a
problem which prevents him from
participating as well uh because he
would be meeting with Abbas. He would
have to make some concessions. He has
stated no Palestinian authority in in
the West Bank. So that's or in Gaza
that's going to be that's going to be a
problem. But we've got a situation where
the Israelis are now not going to be
responsible for security or some of the
uh uh some of the reconstitution of
governance in Gaza. The Palestinians
will be doing this. Will Hamas be uh
responsible for the problems of Gaza or
the Palestinian Authority or it's no
longer Israel's responsibility. It's now
a Palestinian issue and an international
instit issue. So in essence, this the
blame shifts from it's an Israeli
problem to an international problem. But
again, we must get humanitarian aid,
security aid, and rebuild the lives for
the Palestinian people. So I think
before we get to that political problem,
this is a humanitarian and a security
issue and that's where the emphasis will
remain at this point.
>> Norm, I wonder if there's a broader
conclusion also because we used to see
that the alliance between Western
nations used to be the United States,
Europe, and a couple of others, maybe
Japan. Now it seems to be really
shifting to the Middle East. How much
has this deal and the US's relationship
with Saudi Arabia in particular really
solidify that idea?
>> Well, you've seen several things. So,
first of all, this wouldn't have
happened had the United States not
worked with Egypt, Qatar, and even
Turkey. Uh certainly that's true.
However, there have been months of
intensive uh uh diplomatic conversations
with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates. uh and Saudi Arabia working
with uh uh France and other countries
that in essence created an architecture
that also made this happen outside of
the United States itself and that Saudi
Arabat uh diplomatic pressure was itself
a dynamic that cannot be ignored. So
these uh these capitals, these rising
powers are are something that need to be
recognized and uh and and worked with
and the Trump administration to its
credit did exactly that over the last 10
months and we're seeing the results. So
ranging from the chip deals that the
Trump administration is putting
together, the energy discussions and now
we're seeing this in the Middle East.
It's a very interesting and dynamic
approach.
>> Norman, appreciate your perspective on
quite an important moment in that
region. Norman role there of CSIS and
what could be a crowning moment for the
president's leadership for years still
to come and we hope this is an enduring
peace in that region. I imagine there's
still doubts. The president is about to
address the Israeli parliament. The
White House pre-released some of the
remarks he will make. The Holy Land is
now finally at peace. A beautiful
brighter future appears suddenly within
reach.
>> Absolutely. The president is talking
about a new dawn in the Middle East
almost echoes what he said as well in
Riad. But this is just him in this
crowning moment and it really is. Even
though there are so many question marks
about what comes next when it comes to
the different phases of this peace plan,
the fact that the living hostages are
home, the fact that the remains of those
that died in captivity are coming back
to Israel, you have hundreds of
Palestinian prisoners leaving the West
Bank and the president is going to sit
down with Arab leaders in Egypt to talk
about what's going to happen with Gaza
and potentially, to Norm's point,
potentially BB Netanyahu will show up at
the end of this holiday. This is
unprecedented and it's historic for the
region.
>> We'll be tracking these events as they
play out over the next few days of
course right here on Bloomberg TV and on
Bloomberg radio. Historic week
potentially. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. French President Emanuel
Mcronone announced a new cabinet as
pressure mounts for the government to
pass a budget. On Friday, Mcronone
reappointed Prime Minister Sebastian
Leornneu just days after he had
resigned. Mcronone's weakened majority
and a widening budget gap are fueling
investor concerns with French bond
spreads now at multi-year highs.
Meanwhile, the Pentagon is looking to
buy as much as $1 billion of critical
minerals. The Financial Times reporting
the purchase increase follows China's
Ministry of Commerce, putting new export
controls on rare earths and other
materials for defense and technology
manufacturing. The Pentagon's Defense
Logistics Agency stockpiles were valued
at $1.3 billion as of 2023.
And Warner Brothers Discovery has
rejected Paramount Skyance's initial
takeover offer. sources telling us here
at Bloomberg, Warner thought the offer
of around $20 a share was too low.
Warner CEO David Sazlov is set to
believe the company's streaming and
studios arm will command a premium next
year once once it splits from its cable
assets. That's brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Up next on a program, US dollar
dominance in question.
the dollar's rule as the the key
financial currency in the world has
really changed in the last 12 months.
And so I think this is just a cyclical
adjustment after something like a
10-year dollar rally.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Sonia
Martin of DC Bank live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Stocks are bouncing back. We're up by
1.2% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ 100
up by 1.8%. Blackout period for the
Federal Reserve begins this weekend.
That's come about so so quickly. That
Fed meeting two weeks away. Chairman Pal
speaks tomorrow. Ton of Fed governors as
well getting the final word in before
things go quiet.
>> I'm laughing because they get the final
word in without data. So ultimately, how
good is that word? If they're data
dependent, it really creates a sort of
chicken and egg. How much do we listen
to it? How much does it matter? What are
they actually looking at? I don't know.
Is it a quiet period for them or is it a
quiet period for all of us without the
data that we're getting from the
government?
>> I thought there was some tension in the
Fed minutes.
>> Yes.
>> That a lot of them assume they're going
to cut rates again, but the majority
also believe that risk to inflation are
skewed to the upside. Make that work.
>> No, I can't. Sorry. I mean, that's
essentially what we're dealing with. And
how much is this non- voting members
that are sort of the quiet dissenters on
the sideline and the voter voting
members that actually are pushing the
mainstream saying we need to cut again.
>> We were supposed to get USCPI later this
week. Of course that's delayed because
of the government shutdown. October 24th
is the new date on the calendar for that
data point and Savanis this morning. US
dollar dominance in question.
The dollar's rule as the the key
financial currency in the world has
really changed in the last 12 months. I
think that what we're seeing is
primarily a cyclical development and not
this big structural like the whole world
is boycotting the dollar or something
like that. I think that the dollar's
decline it's still overvalued against
most of the G10 currencies. And so I
think this is just a cyclical adjustment
after something like a 10-year dollar
rally.
>> So here's the latest this morning. US
dollar facing fresh volatility as US
China trade tensions ramp up. Sonia
Martin of DC Bank writing, "While it is
certainly easy to take a negative stance
on the US dollar, given the situation in
the US, many investors continue to
invest capital right here in the United
States." Sonia joins us now for more.
Sonia, let's just compare and contrast
the price action of April to the price
action of say Friday and the price
action of more recent days. Sonia, back
in April, we were worried about the loss
of exceptionalism. Are we sitting here
now looking to close out October
thinking about the lack of alternatives?
>> Yes, absolutely. I mean, as uh as we
said before, I mean in in April we had
this huge move uh in the treasury market
in the dollar. A lot of people were very
concerned about the future of the dollar
as just mentioned in the program earlier
is there was a lot of discussion and we
had some discussions I remember about
the uh possibility that there there
might be a broader loss of confidence in
the US currency in the US equity market
in the US market in general and I think
that really drove the story for a while
in the spring and early summer and you
know now we see the reaction on Friday
the dollar was very muted you know
treasury yields went down and I think
what we've seen is a growing realization
that for many investors there aren't up
many alternatives to the US market and
as we see in the data um you know the
demand for for dollar asset has remained
really high throughout the end of July
so that already includes you know 6
months of Donald Trump as president
>> Euro dollar we were building up some big
longs in a single currency Sonia Euro
dollar's broken back down to 11586 do
you believe we still need to let some
air out of that particular trade
>> well I yes I do uh I will say though
that to a certain extent we are flying
blind right now because we have no fresh
data from the IMM on speculative market
positioning that's one of the data
points we are not getting as a result of
the shutdown uh the 23rd of September
the outstanding amount of long euro
dollar longs were still massive over
100,000 contracts we don't know how many
of these have been unwound but I'd be
surprised if all of these were already
out of the market and I think
particularly with the view to France
there is certainty certainly some
additional downside risk in Euro dollar
in the very short term.
>> So, do you say that right now is a good
time to get dollar long?
>> Well, I think definitely if you're
looking at a very very short-term view,
that might be the case. But ultimately,
I think as a medium or longerterm
investor, levels below 116 are certainly
attractive as a buying opportunity for
Euro dollar.
>> I just wonder how difficult it is to
really use past models for this market.
I'm looking, for example, at the dollar,
and yes, it has seen a bit of
strengthening over the past couple of
weeks, but you look at gold, it's
reaching a new all-time high. You look
at silver, reaching an all newtime high.
This idea that this is a a market that
is increasingly based on real assets and
not the financialization of uh of of the
of the idea that a lot of people have
bought into over the past couple of
decades. Is there something
fundamentally different this time around
when it comes to value in currency
markets?
>> I definitely agree with that. I think we
have been in that situation for some
time. You think about, you know, COVID,
the war in the Ukraine, the inflation
push we had. I mean, all of that has
fundamentally changed the way things
work. I mean, for people like us who've
been in this market for a long time, and
we've had to rethink and relearn many
things. And I think certainly when
you're talking about model based
approaches, I would argue that most of
these simply do not work anymore. And we
have to think with a much more open
mind. We have to think and think as well
much more in scenarios because things
keep happening particularly this year
that we would not have thought possible
u not only in the US but particularly
obviously in the US and you know we've
just seen a renewed escalation of the
trade war between the US and China and
you know it's very difficult to predict
exactly what's going to happen is it
going to be taco or is it going to be I
mentioned I heard this morning on your
program uh that Trump tries again or
something like that um so we'll have to
see how that plays out but basically
modelbased approaches don't really work
in that environment anymore.
>> Tata Sonia Trump always tries what it
was.
>> So, so when it comes to that and you
have this potential escalation of the
trade war brewing, do you think that's
dollar positive? Investors just want to
go to the haven.
>> Well, I think okay, so that obviously
depends on what happens elsewhere in the
world. I mean when when Trump became
president and we thought about what
would happen if Trump started rise
raising higher tariffs and to be honest
we didn't expect that to happen as early
and aggressively as it did. The thinking
was that this could actually be dollar
positive because these tariffs would
have a considerable negative impact not
only in the US but also of of course on
other economies and that this would
ultimately allow the dollar to gain some
ground. Now I I think that idea has
largely been dismissed in recent months
but I mean still somewhere there. So it
always depends on what happens to the
other side. I mean when you look at
Europe for example, we have a trade
deal. We'll see how how long it lasts or
when it will be changed. But the fact of
the matter is that this trade deal has a
negative impact on growth in the Euro
zone and therefore another it's may it
may be dollar positive in some ways but
certainly is euro negative in other
ways. So I think that's something that
we have to always think about this from
both sides of the equation. There isn't
a straightforward answer to that
question.
>> Dollar stronger so far this morning.
Sonia, thanks for jumping on. Sonia
Martin there of DC Bank. Sonia was
talking about flying blind. It's
interesting that at the end of this
month when the Fed gets together, we
might have CPI might not have payrolls
at a time when the Fed is putting
emphasis on one and not the other. And
the one that they're not putting
emphasis on is the one we might have.
And it could be uncomfortable. It could
have a three handle. That makes things
difficult for this Fed, I think.
>> You know, or does it allow them to say,
well, actually, it's probably a negative
payroll report that we would have
gotten, which is what we heard from
Chris Waller. So we have to look past
this and trust that this is simply a
transitory type of inflationary push.
But you are absolutely right. It is
really an odd kind of confluence of
events.
>> Working up to that Fed meeting about two
weeks away. Coming up next, we'll catch
up with Lori Cavscina of RBC, Henry
Trace Vader Partners. We speak to the
former senior White House trade
official, Kellyanne Shaw, and Ian Harnet
of Absolute Strategy from New York City.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance is just around the corner.
In the absence of data, people seem to
be perfectly happy.
>> We're definitely dealing with less
information, but we're not flying blind.
>> The earnings reports are real. That's
odd data.
>> The Fed is likely to cut. The economy is
likely to grow.
>> I think they would air on the side of
caution. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
In the absence of data, you put even
more emphasis on the earnings. It's a
big week for bank earnings. Check out
the calendar. JP Morgan, Goldman, Bank
of America, City, Wells Fargo, all
reporting Tuesday through Wednesday.
You'll hear from Chairman Powell as
well. There's a lot still to play for.
Equity futures bouncing back already
this Monday morning from Friday's
losses. Futures up by 1.3% on the S&P on
the NASDAQ up by 1.8 as the president
dials down the volume takes down the
temperature with China over the weekend.
>> And it's frankly what a lot of people
were almost hoping for and expecting and
that is the reason why you see the buy
the dip mentality come back and you do
see that from Max Ker as well. Even Mike
Wilson who talks about the potential for
11% draw down in the S&P 500 should the
tensions cons continue that the
expectation is for that all to be bought
back with a positive kind of tilt
because likely there will be some sort
of resolution. So what if this time is
different? That I think is quite a
different scenario that this market has
yet to grapple with.
>> Monday morning the mood music is
different. I've got all of that but the
direction of travel the lyrics are still
the same. Check out MP Materials right
now in the pre-market 10% move. Look at
the reporting from the Financial Times
in the last 24 hours. The Pentagon
stockpiling critical rare earth
minerals. That's going to be the big
effort over at the Defense Department.
And then JP Morgan coming out this
morning right on time. Jamie Diamond
promising to help finance this massive
effort to improve national security. It
feels like a whole of government, a
whole of industry approach across the
United States when it comes to the fact
that the US needs to fortify and shore
up the access, the raw materials when it
comes to rare earth because China owns
the entire supply chain from owning
them, refining them, processing them,
and selling them. And it's not just
about AI technology, which we talk a lot
about this program because that what it
means for the stock market. It is about
our national defense and the fact that
there are pounds of these rare materials
in almost every single one of US
weaponry.
>> You can say what you want on social
media on Air Force One. The Chinese can
say whatever they want at the end of
this month, the start of November when
these two leaders meet. Ultimately, the
effort will not change. There needs to
be an increase of domestic production on
several fronts. JP Morgan wants to
finance it. We know where this is going
>> and this is the reason why it's sort of
an interesting moment. Do both sides
have the incentive to deescalate, right?
Who is willing to take more pain to
decouple more suddenly versus gradually
over a certain time period which seemed
to be the initial effort, right? Let's
take a while to actually get access so
that we can wean ourselves off them and
then create our own. And that as we were
talking about earlier is part of what
China's responding to saying just hold
on a second. We could tolerate the pain.
We don't want your chips. And guess
what? will develop them in short order.
>> Stocks are up by 1.2% on the S&P, just
eating into some of the losses from
Friday's session. A broad-based rally on
the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ 2. Coming up
this hour, Lori Cavscina of RBC Capital
Markets looking ahead to earnings. Henri
of Vader Partners as the US government
shutdown enters its third week and Ian
Harnet of Absolute Strategy warning the
AI capex endgame is approaching. We
begin this hour with stocks rebounding
following their biggest one-day drop
since April. Lori Cavscina of RBC
writing the following. If the strong
sentiment around earnings that was seen
in the last reporting season can't be
maintained, we think it will be
difficult for the major indices to avoid
a period of digestion. Lori joins us now
for more. Lori, welcome back. I give you
a ton of credit because I think you've
been so consistent for so long on this
point. Don't completely ignore the trade
story. At some point, it's coming back
and it will bite. How are you thinking
about that going into earning season?
>> Well, thanks John. Thanks for having me
as always. And look, it's interesting,
John. I've been, you know, kind of all
over the last couple weeks, London,
running around the US to a whole bunch
of different cities and states, and the
one thing that I was not hearing from
investors that they were worried about
was a reescalation of China uh China
trade issues. Um, and I think that's
really interesting that that is what
really finally gave this market a bit of
a scare on Friday. It really proved one
that this was not on the radar of
investors and two um that tariffs do
still have this you know sort of power
and maybe there's been a bit of
complacency on those trade issues. I
think as we go into earnings frankly you
know this has been an earnings driven
market. We haven't seen any multiple
expansion in the S&P 500 the NASDAQ 100
or even the top 10 names in the S&P 500
since August. That's not to be you know
that that's something to be expected
frankly when inflation is moving up. And
so I think this market is really going
to get its mojo going forward from
earnings. And unfortunately to me, it
just feels like we're in the middle
middle of a little bit of a fade right
now.
>> So Lori, let's talk about the earnings
and what we've heard so far. We've had a
massive step down in payrolls growth.
Got that? But ultimately, this is the
Delta Airlines economy. Half the country
thinks they're group one. Now Lori, when
you have a situation like that, do you
just assume the earnings hold up?
>> So I think what's been holding up the
earnings, right? I I do think that to
some extent it's been these higher
income consumers. if you look at some of
the consumer companies or companies like
the airlines. But I think also we've
seen big tech propping up this market
from an earnings perspective. Those mega
cap names and frankly when we look at
the rate of upward revisions a good
barometer for earnings sentiment across
different indexes and sectors. It's been
the top 10 names in the S&P 500 that are
holding up well. Um and it's been the
tech sector itself to a lesser degree
financials and healthcare. Uh but really
we've already started to see weakness
emerge in some of those tariff related
sectors, the consumer related sectors.
Um, and as we think right now, you know,
I I do think that what benefits these
bigger cap names in the S&P, you know,
that can keep earnings afloat, but
frankly, we do wonder if we're starting
to get the peak levels of sentiment
there as well. Lori, I do wonder if
there is something structural underway.
And we were talking with Peter Shear
earlier of Academy Securities, and he
was saying this is actually opening up
opportunities to invest longer term in
parts of the economy that will benefit
from a decoupling between China and the
US. I mean, moving past this moment and
the idea of the volatility, do you agree
that things like the Russell 2000
potentially could see upside if there is
more of a push to increase the domestic
supply chain if some of these other
companies as well stand to benefit from
the likes of JP Morgan, from the likes
of Apollo making bigger investments?
So, I think it goes back when you're
talking about small cap specifically,
Lisa. I think it goes back to what's
your view of the economy. And I would
differentiate between upside and
outperformance because this has been a
big debate on Wall Street over the last
couple of months, frankly, where we've
had a lot of people coming out and
saying, you want to buy the Russell
2000. That's really been more about rate
cuts than anything else. I think that
catalyst has passed for now. Um, but
what we've told people is that if you're
looking for the start of a bigger,
longer term outperformance cycle in the
Russell 2000, i.e. leading versus
NASDAQ, leading versus the S&P, not just
going up that you really need to get a
hot economy or a broken economy in your
mindset. So, what do I mean by that?
Typically, you want to buy small caps
when you break the economy. You own them
for the springboard coming out or you
need an economy that's more like a 3%
economy than a 1 to 2% economy. You want
ISM manufacturing moving up. You want
jobs growth accelerating. If you can get
there on that macro data for that kind
of ramp up, that really, really hot
backdrop, then sure, go ahead and buy
small caps. But that's not what I'm
hearing from the economics community at
large right now or our in-house team.
So, we've been a little bit cooler
there. based on what you hear from
companies so far and I realize that
earnings season really officially kicks
off and tomorrow uh with the likes of JP
Morgan and Goldman Sachs reporting
earnings. I'm just wondering how
resilient do you think that corporate
America is to some additional ratcheting
up of trade tensions particularly
between the US and China even if it does
cool in the near term that this is going
to be an ongoing story about the uh
ramping up ramping down but continually
toward the same destination.
Well, look, I think if we go back to the
beginning of the year when tariffs were
being discussed as a policy initiative,
we heard a lot about short-term pain for
long-term gain. Um, and I think that
somewhere over the summer, equity
investors just forgot about the idea
that there might be some short-term pain
involved. So, if you look at, you know,
kind of the question of resiliency, I
think that corporate America is doing a
fantastic job. That being said, I don't
think that they are able to completely
get out of this without some bumps and
bruises. And frankly, Lisa, we saw some
of those bumps and bruises in the last
reporting season. If you looked at the
industrial sector, for example, and this
was the one that really got creamed
during the first trade war of 2018. It's
held up better this time around, but
it's an extraordinarily expensive
sector. And when we were seeing
companies that were coming out and
beating, we weren't getting the big pops
uh that you would normally expect to
see. If you look at margin expectations
using consensus data for both 2Q and 3Q,
which is more of a forward look, we saw
between June and Labor Day, we basically
saw all the tariff related sectors take
a hit, have those margin expectations
trimmed. We saw it for the health care
sector, we saw it materials, we saw it
for industrials, and we also saw it in
3Q for consumer discretionary. The
reason nobody noticed is that S&P 500
margin expectations
stayed flat, and that was because the
tech sector went up in both time
periods. So, I think that you've already
started to see some of those bumps and
bruises emerge. Nobody noticed though
because the tech sector was making
everything look good at the broader
index level.
>> Laura, you mentioned trade during
Trump's first administration. How are
viewing or how are clients viewing the
Chinese negotiations this time around?
>> It's a great question, Anarie. And you
know, it's funny. I mean, there were two
things that we didn't really talk about
over the last three weeks in my investor
meetings. One was the government
shutdown and one was the trade
relationship with China. We talked about
AI. We talked about valuation. We talked
about labor market weakness. We talked
about how capex isn't coming through in
the way people thought over the summer.
Um and so I I think that to be honest,
people thought that we were on the
upswing and really had discounted the
idea that we might be taking some steps
back. Um you know, I think the policy
experts, you know, on in the financial
community and down in DC, I I suspect
that many of them were not surprised by
this, but I do think equity investors,
it just wasn't on their radar.
>> Lori, appreciate you jumping on this
morning and breaking it down. looking
forward to earning season. Lori Calvina
of RBC. A lot of people had moved on and
then it came back to bite on Friday and
we'll see if that's just a scare or
something more enduring. We're hearing
from the Treasury Secretary Scott Benson
speaking to the American press earlier
on this morning. We won't let China
export restrictions go on. This is China
versus the rest of the world. We expect
support from Europe and India to take on
China on this issue. It sounds like he's
amping up the rhetoric, especially when
you have a headline saying this is China
versus the rest of the world and we're
not going to let Chinese restrictions go
on. But at the same time, he's saying
that he's optimistic that they can
deescalate and he wants to meet with his
counterpart. So this is once again the
Trump administration having really a lot
of scope in terms of how they want to
negotiate with China. At the same time,
I think as a Treasury Secretary speaking
directly to the financial markets,
saying we are still going to have this
dialogue. I'm still going to meet my
counterpart. Equity futures pulling back
just a little bit positive now by about
1% on the S&P 500 with an update on
stories worldwide. Let's get to your
Bloomberg brief. We can catch up with
Lizzie Burden with more. Hey Lizzie.
>> Hey John. President Donald Trump is
speaking in the Israeli Knesset
following the release of all 20 living
Israeli hostages from Gaza. Under the
terms of the deal, once all the hostages
are freed, Israel will free almost 2,000
Palestinian prisoners and allow more aid
into the Gaza Strip. Elsewhere, silver
hit its highest level in decades as a
short squeeze in London intensified.
Concerns over the lack of liquidity here
in London drove silver near $52.50 an
ounce, a level not seen since 1980.
Investor demand spreading to other
precious metals with gold surpassing
$4,070 an ounce and platinum also
surging. And Xiaomi shares fell the most
since April after reports that one of
its SUV SU7 excuse me electric sedan's
doors failed to open after a fiery crash
in the southwest Chinese city of Changdu
trapping at least one person inside. The
crash added additional scrutiny to the
safety of electronically operated car
door handles. And that should be my
brief. John.
>> Lizzy. Thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Lizzy later on this hour. Up next
on the program, a shutdown stalemate.
The longer this goes on, the deeper the
cuts are going to be. Some of these cuts
are going to be painful. This is not a
situation that we relish. This is not
something that we're looking forward to,
but the Democrats have dealt us a pretty
difficult set of cards.
>> A conversation up next with Henry Trader
Partners live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Soothing words from the president over
the weekend. The USA wants to help
China, not hurt it. Equities bounce back
up by 1% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ
100, up by 1.6% 6% under Savylvanas this
morning a focus in Washington DC the
shutdown stalemate.
>> The tariffs have also given us a little
bit of financial flexibility so that we
can keep on as many essential services
as possible including most importantly
paying the troops. The longer this goes
on, the deeper the cuts are going to be.
Some of these cuts are going to be
painful. This is not a situation that we
relish. This is not something that we're
looking forward to. But the Democrats
have dealt us a pretty difficult set of
cards. We're trying to do the best that
we can with the shutdown situation that
Chuck Schumer has left us.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
government shutdown entering its third
week as Democrats and Republicans remain
deadlocked on Capitol Hill. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now for more.
Tyler, are we getting closer and closer
to approaching those delicate moments
where it gets difficult to continue
this?
>> It appears that way though, John.
Really, neither side is budging on their
position. Plus, keep in mind that the
House is on recess this entire week, and
the Senate's not coming back until
Tuesday. And both sides are really dug
in, including this White House, which
says that it's not going to negotiate
with Democrats on any of the provisions
related to healthcare until the
government reopens. But, as you're
alluding to, the pressure is certainly
mounting. Take these layoffs for example
that you heard the vice president
threaten are only going to get worse.
They're already starting to be
challenged in court. In fact, we're
going to hear the first arguments uh in
a a case challenging the legality of
these firings this Wednesday. So
potentially we'll get an update there.
But it was a court filing last week that
we learned that the OM sent letters to
an estimated 4,100 federal workers
across seven agencies saying that their
positions are going to be terminated.
Well, that is going to be a big pressure
point. We saw at least one pressure
point appear to be relieved over the
weekend and that's pay for our troops.
President Trump announcing that the
Pentagon had allocated funding that they
could redirect to military pay. This is
$8 billion in re research funds that
hadn't been used yet and is instead
going to go towards paychecks. But John,
we're going to have to keep watching
this very closely because really at this
uh point as you mentioned it's really a
stalemate.
>> Tyler Kendall down in the nation's
capital in Washington DC. Tyler, thank
you. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Henred Trey of Vader
Partners. Henrietta, a question I never
thought I'd ask. What does the House
Minority Leader Hakee Jeff have in
common with Congresswoman Marjorie
Taylor Green?
>> Wow. Uh, well, they both are at this
juncture actually in the same place on
extending ACA subsidies and the healthc
care component. Um, I think that is the
reality that the Republicans are going
to have to accept before the government
is reopened or at least before the end
of the year. We've got 75% odds on the
ACA subsidies being extended. And that's
because 22 million Americans
disproportionately in red states like
Marjorie Taylor Greens are going to lose
their healthcare coverage. And going
into a midterm election, no matter which
side you're on, you don't want that. So
eventually there will be a deal to
extend the ACA subsidies. I think it's
going to hit a ride with a farm farmers
bailout. Uh but we're not at that pain
point yet.
>> I don't really hear a lot of people
talking about farmers the same way
they're talking about these subaca
subsidies. How do you think both of
these could be done to reopen the
government together?
>> The the timeline is really important. I
think Amory, we have to get through this
potential Trump she meeting. President
Trump in the last couple of weeks has
sort of quietly or less under the radar
been promoting the idea that there's
going to be a breakthrough that yields
agriculture purchases by China of US
soy, which of course they have not
purchased at all in the second half of
this year. So, the timing and around
November 7th, which is when they go on
recess, which I know sounds ridiculous
since they're already on break, uh, or
at least avoiding work, they do have a
scheduled recess for for Veterans Day.
So, what I see happening is that the
Trump Shei meeting in South Korea on the
31st and the 1st does not yield a
breakthrough in soy purchases and then
we need the farmers bailout. and that's
because we're running out of time and
the farmers need something if we're not
going to be able to sell into markets
like the European Union or India as you
were mentioning before that's not going
to happen for political reasons there.
Um, so it's really the timing and I I'm
just trying to forecast for our clients
what this ultimate off-ramp is going to
be and the farmer bailout need is very
real although under discussed.
>> Henri though are you saying that you
expect the government to remain shut
until Trump potentially has this meeting
at Apac with Xi Jinping?
I don't really see a problem forecasting
that right now. There's no forward
progress. There's no indications the
House is coming back into session at all
this week or into next week. They don't
really work. Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday is the only period of any real
work week that they do come in. So,
getting to November 1st is pretty easy.
It's just a hop, skip, and a jump away.
>> Which raises this issue of what happens
in that time? I mean, we already have
talked about the idea that troops are
going to get paid. Uh, with some of the
funds getting redirected to the Pentagon
in order to make sure that that happens,
what else is going to happen like that?
How much power does President Trump
really have to do this in absence of any
kind of direction whatsoever from
Congress?
>> This is the most important question. The
president is taxing US citizens with
tariffs and now he's starting to spend
that money. What the message from the
vice president that was just relayed on
that clip you just said is that the
tariffs are going to pay for for troop
paychecks. That's not correct. That's
wrong. The president doesn't have the
authority to just pick up Treasury funds
and start spending them. These are
already allocated research and
development packages that are $8 billion
worth that they can spend over two
years. That is a technical appropriation
that Congress authorized that the
president is diverting through the
executive branch. It's not spending
tariff revenue, but you're putting a
spin on tariff revenue that makes it
sound like it's a good thing. Like, hey,
tariffs are paying for the troops.
That's not correct. So, the longer we
get into this shutdown, the more the
president is going to have an
opportunity to say things like that. Are
we paying the Coast Guard? They're not
funded under the Pentagon. How exactly
are we going to pay for those funds?
It's all going to come from appropriated
money, not from the president
redirecting tariffs. And so, that's
going to be eventually a squeeze. And
the president's putting out leaks in a
whole bunch of places with Wick,
eventually with food stamps. They need a
farmer's bailout. They need that to come
from Congress.
>> How much are both Republicans and
Democrats secretly happy that President
Trump is doing this because it gives
them more time to negotiate if you do
have troops continuing to get paid?
>> Yeah. Nobody wants to see troops not get
paid. It's never happened in history.
Last time we shut down, we had an
appropriation for the department for the
Pentagon. Uh and so we didn't have to
face that. I I think it's ugly for
everybody, but it does prolong the
shutdown because now there's no urgency
to act. That's why I can't see a clear
delineation. We used to say, you know,
October 15th when staff gets paid or the
24th and the 10th and we've blown past
those and it's because there are other
ways to plug the hole. We don't have a
real deadline until November 7th that I
can identify.
>> Well, the next pay cycle for the
military is the end of the month. Is
there enough in the research and
development fund to continue paying the
troops from that fund?
>> There's a lot of ways to be inventive.
There's uh a hundred or so billion from
the one big beautiful bill that the
Pentagon was authorized to spend. They
could probably redirect some of that to
troop pay and then backfill it later.
There's a lot of ways to get creative,
but my underlying point is it has to be
already appropriated from Congress
previously. They can maneuver at the
edges for a little while um maybe even
into mid November and then it starts to
get painful.
>> Can they maneuver in terms of paying air
traffic controllers? because in 2019
that was the pressure point that
actually changed trajectory of the
shutdown.
>> Yeah, I mean I would hope so. I've got
to get on a flight tomorrow morning. Um
but the the real piece that I want to
see is members have to go through the
pain of going through TSA, going through
the airport security.
>> Then they need to go to work. Henrietta
Speaker Johnson hasn't called them back.
They're not working.
>> So they're not seeing it. That's right.
>> Hena, appreciate you jumping on. Henry
Stray's there. Evaded partners. This was
always going to be the pressure point,
right? The airport's got to sell.
>> To Henrietta's point, which is a great
point, you need members of Congress to
go through TSA. Well, they're back in
their districts. Unless they're taking
vacations, they're not going back to
Washington DC. So maybe they don't
actually know that yet. But wait till
their constituents have to travel for
business, for work, for pleasure. And
then they're going to be the ones that
are calling and saying, "This is
ridiculous. We need the shutdown."
>> Do members of Congress still get paid?
>> Do members of Congress still get paid? I
believe they do.
>> They do.
>> Yeah, they do. Maybe we should think
about, you know, changing that in the
future.
>> You don't say. I mean, that's something
that's just line incentives.
>> Exactly. The Well, yes, that's something
that's been discussed extensively.
Paid first.
>> By the way, airlines doing okay. Down to
airlines. Those headlines that came out
going into the weekend. Our customers
financially in a good spot. We're not
seeing any pullback in demand.
>> Even in the economy seating and air
traffic controllers are pushing back,
too. They're saying just to set the
record straight. Over the weekend, there
were a couple of articles talking about
it wasn't us that stopped the first
shutdown. We come to work. It was a
small amount. There's sort of this
interesting jostling where people want
to keep you flying at the same time that
you actually are experiencing those
delays. So, try to square that circle
too. I mean, there's a lot of, you know,
politicking behind the scenes.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. We have got a bounce back
in the equity market. Equity futures
firmer by one full percentage point in
the S&P 500. You see this across the
equity market, not just states side, but
worldwide after a pullback on Friday
triggered by what looked like an
escalation between the US and China.
Over the weekend, comments from JD
Vance, the vice president and the
president of the United States on Air
Force One, as well as on social media,
attempting to open the door to some kind
of agreement with China at the end of
this month, the start of November. Fact
of the matter is there is still tension
over one critical issue, and it's
Chinese rare earths. China started this,
and they haven't backed off on that
issue. And JD Vance, the vice president
said over the weekend, it's up to
Beijing to quote, "Choose the path of
reason." You hear from the Treasury
Secretary and he's talking about the
fact that we're not going to go at this
alone. We're talking to India. We're
talking to the Europeans in terms of how
we can confront China on this issue. And
on Friday, Lisa and I were talking about
the fact that Germany actually said this
is a huge problem for us and we're going
to need to deliberate with the European
Union on how we are going to deal with
China and the fact that they own the
entire supply chain. Pretty much we're
talking about 70 to 95% of the critical
minerals.
>> Europeans are finding out that sitting
on the fence is not a sustainable
position anymore. You've got to make a
call. Coming up on this program, the
former senior White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw on the prospects of a US
China trade deal. Plus, happening right
now, President Donald Trump speaking to
Israel's parliament after securing the
release of all 20 remaining hostages in
Gaza.
[Music]
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all and welcome to
the program as we count you down to the
opening bell. Equity futures on the S&P
500 firmer bouncing back by about 1% on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ 100, up by
1.5% on the Russell, we're up by about
1.3. This is the bounce back you've been
looking for in the equity market. On our
radar this morning though, one of our
top stories, President Donald Trump
speaking at Israel's Knesset, his speech
following the release of all 20
remaining living Israeli hostages from
Gaza. Let's take a listen.
Look at it guys. Central casting. Let's
put him in a movie. Look at him. Great
job. And my people love working with
you. Loved it.
They work so well together.
But many of Iran's top terrorists,
including
nuclear scientists and commanders, have
been extinguished from this earth. And
with Operation
Midnight Hammer, boy, that's a great
name for that. What we did
last year, the United States military
flew seven of those beautiful B2
bombers. They look so beautiful all of a
sudden. They were always
I thought they were pretty planes. I had
no idea they could do what they did. In
fact, we just ordered 28 more of them.
A little update. a little updated
version.
We ordered a whole pile of them and
almost 100 other planes went with them,
including fighter jets. And we had 52
tankers, big, beautiful, brand new
tankers that were loading them up four
or five times. They traveled 37 hours
back and forth. Think of that. But we
had tankers all over the sky for all the
other planes. We had the F-22s, the
F-35s,
F-16s. We had a hell of a lot of planes.
So, we had 52 gas stations in the sky.
That's what they call them. I tell you,
I wouldn't want to be flying one of
them. We have our great General Raisin
Kaine right here. General, stand up.
This guy, what a general.
Thank you.
[Applause]
I asked General Kaine, I said, "Uh, you
know, we're having problems with ISIS."
And I was in Washington and I asked,
"How long would it take to defeat ISIS?"
And my Washington generals told me, "3,
four, maybe five years, sir." I said, 'I
don't get it. We got the best equipment
in the world. Why? So, I flew to Iraq
and I met with a man named Kane. He
said, 'What's your first name? He said,
they call me Raisin, sir. I said, wait a
minute. Your name is Raisin Kain. I've
been looking for you for a long time.
You got to be kidding. So, they told me
three, four, five years to defeat ISIS.
And I sit down with him and I say, "Why
is it I I flew there
In the dark of night, I land. I'll never
forget it. It's quite a trip. I'm glad I
made it because I met him. I said,
"Could I ask you, General?" I come down.
He said with another general and a
sergeant. Everybody was like Central
casting. They could go into a movie
right now. Between him and you guys over
here, we could get rich making movies.
Okay. But but and they got along so
great. That's the beautiful thing that
your military and our military BB got
along so great. But
[Applause]
but I was told by the television
generals in Washington, we have the best
equipment in the world. Why is it taking
so long? And uh they said four years. I
said, so let me ask you, Raisin, how
long would it take you to defeat ISIS?
Sir, we can do it in 3 weeks, but you'll
probably have some time left over. I
said, you got to be kidding. What the
hell are you talking about? They said,
four years. said, "Well, sir, uh, look,
it's not my place to say, but you're
asking me the question. What you have to
do is you hit him from the west, you hit
him from the north, you hit him from the
south, you hit them above, you hit him
below." I said, "So, why didn't they do
it?" And he didn't want to speak badly
of his superiors, which is hard to
believe they were his superiors. Should
have been the other way around a long
time ago, cuz he's the one that did
Operation. It was flawless. It was
flawless. It was absolutely flawless.
And
and I said, "So, you really think you
can do it in four weeks?" "Yes, sir.
100%. You have to do it differently than
they were doing it." They were using one
base and it was hundreds of miles away.
And he says, "We have all these portable
bases all over the Middle East and they
didn't want to use them because they
didn't want to offend the country where
the portable they wouldn't have even
known what the hell the planes were
going up, right? They wouldn't have
known." But he said, "No, they didn't
want to defend anybody, offend anybody."
And uh but we can do it in four weeks.
And I said, "You sure about that? I'm
going to call you back. I'll call you
back on Monday. I'm going back to
Washington." But you think four weeks?
Yes, sir. I think we can do it in four
weeks. We'll have time left over. So I
called him on Monday. I said, "You think
you can do it?" Four weeks. I said, "Go
ahead and do it." He did it. I'll tell
you, he did it in four weeks. Less than
four weeks. So, General, stand up,
please.
Again,
this is a real general. This is not a
television general. He doesn't want to
go on television.
He doesn't want to go on television. I
said, "The other guys love being on
television."
So, we dropped 14 bombs on Iran's key
nuclear facilities, totally, as I said,
originally obliterating them and that's
been confirmed and everybody understands
it. Together, we stopped the number one
state sponsor of terror from obtaining
the world's most dangerous weapons.
And if you think about it, if we didn't
do that, and assuming we made the same
deal that we have today, there'd be a
dark cloud over this deal. And number
one, it wouldn't happen because the
other Arab and Muslim nations really
wouldn't feel comfortable making the
deal that we have now, right? If Iran
had that nuclear weapon that they were
about two months away from having, they
would have had it in two months or maybe
less than that. They were right at this
was our last shot.
They looked at it for 22 years. This was
our last shot. The pilots told me that.
They said 22 years, sir. They looked at
it. Our predecessors looked, they
studied it three times a year. We do
drills on that exact attack. And boy,
did they get it right. But let's assume
they didn't. And let's assume there was
large-scale nuclear weapons in the hands
of Iran. We couldn't be here today. Even
if we signed the deal, which we couldn't
do because a lot of people would not
want to have anything to do with it, we
took a big cloud off of the Middle East
and off of Israel.
[Applause]
and it was my honor to uh to help. But
it isn't isn't it true though that can
you imagine the same let's assume maybe
the same documents we had everything the
same but you had somebody out there that
was in the opinion of everybody all
powerful in the Middle East. Uh they
took a big hit, didn't they? Didn't they
take a big hit? Boy, oh boy. They got it
from one side, from the other. And you
know, it would be great if we could make
a peace deal with them. And I think
that's Would you be happy with that?
Wouldn't it be nice? I think
because I think they want to. I think
they're tired. Somebody said, "Sir,
they're starting their nuclear program
again." I said, "Let me tell you
something. They're not starting
anything. They want to survive. The last
thing they want to do is start digging
holes again in mountains that just got
blown up and start They're not doing
They want to survive. Okay. But I think
we have a chance. Steve, you and I think
uh Jared, come on. I'll call you back
for another one. We always bring Jared
when we want to get that deal closed. We
bring Jared, but Steve, you and Jared
and the general and Pete and Marco,
uh you'll get that deal done easy. I
think that'll be easy. But first, we
have to get Russia done. We got to get
that one done. If you don't mind, Steve,
let's focus on Russia first. All right,
we'll get it done.
In Lebanon, the dagger of Hezbollah,
long aimed at Israel's throat, has been
totally shattered. My administration is
actively supporting the new president of
Lebanon in his mission to permanently
disarm Hezbollah's terror brigades. He's
doing very well.
and build a thriving state at peace with
its neighbors. And you're very much in
favor of that, I know. And uh it's uh
good things are happening there. Really
good things. And with this week's
ceasefire, we've achieved the most
challenging breakthrough of them all.
The most challenging breakthrough maybe
ever. I mean, I've never seen anything
like I've been involved in a lot of
success. I have never seen anything like
what's going on today all over the
world. People are dancing in the
streets, not just in Israel. They're
dancing in the streets of countries that
would have never danced in the street
about what's happening today. They're
dancing in those streets.
So, this long and difficult war has now
ended. You know, some people say 3,000
years, some people say 500 years.
Whatever it is, it's uh the granddaddy
of them all. And in an unprecedented
achievement, virtually the entire region
has endorsed the plan that Gaza will be
immediately demilitarized, that Hamas
will be disarmed,
and Israel security will no longer be
threatened in any way, shape, or form.
[Applause]
So, Israel, with our help, has won all
that they can by force of arms. You've
won. I mean, you've won. Now, it's time
to translate these victories against
terrorists on the battlefield into the
ultimate prize of peace and prosperity
for the entire Middle East. It's about
time you were able to enjoy the fruits
of your labor.
Opp Mr. opposition leader. He's I said
he's a very nice opposition leader. I
think No, he's a nice man, BB. He's a
nice man.
Good.
He knows what he's doing right
now. Very nice guy.
>> Well, see, now you can be a little bit
nicer, baby, cuz you're not at war
anymore, baby.
[Applause]
But only by embracing the opportunities
of this moment can we achieve our goal
of ensuring that the horrors of recent
years will never happen again. You don't
want to have to go through this again.
Eight years ago, I came to this region
on a very special first trip abroad as
the president of the United States. I
came here very early at your request. I
addressed the leaders of the Arab and
Muslim world gathered in Saudi Arabia
and said that it was time to build a
future free of the grip of extremism and
terror. And I'm interestingly right now
I'm as soon as I'm finished I'm quite
late. You've kept me quite late between
opposition leaders and BB's brilliant
but very long speech.
I thought I was going to run up here,
make a speech, and then head to Egypt.
It didn't work out though. And you made
a pretty long one too, sir.
[Applause]
But I liked what you all said. It could
be worse. Supposing I on top of it, I
didn't like what you said. That would
No, that would be no good. Ron, would it
Ron? You did a great job, by the way.
Ron.
[Applause]
So, I'm going to be meeting actually in
a little while. I'm going to be meeting
with the most powerful, the richest
nations really in the world. Although
now with the tariffs, the United States
is by far the richest nation in the
world as you probably have been reading.
But the richest nations, most powerful
nations, uh, you know, tremendous,
tremendous, headed by some tremendous
people in many cases, some cases I
wouldn't say necessarily I would
endorse, but I will tell you some
incredible people that really helped us
make this all possible. So, I'll be
going there. I'll be quite late. They
might not be there by the time I get
there,
but we're going to give it a shot. But
the journey we started back then led to
the crushing defeat of the ISIS
caliphate to the monumental Abraham
Accords and ultimately to the historic
ceasefire this week in which many of
those same nations really played that a
very pivotal role. I have to tell you,
Steve will tell you that. Jared will
tell you that together we've shown that
peace is not just a hope that we can
dream about. that it's a reality we can
build upon day by day, person by person,
and nation by nation. And because of
that, the Middle East is finally ready
to embrace its extraordinary potential.
You have extraordinary potential in this
region. It should now be clear to
everyone throughout the region that
decades of fermenting terrorism and
extremism,
jihadism, and anti-semitism have not
worked. They haven't worked. They've
been a disaster.
They've just killed. They've killed.
They've backfired completely and
totally. They've just totally backfired.
Everything that you thought, take it
worst case, it's turned out to be worse
than that. They have not worked. From
Gaza to Iran, those bitter hatreds have
delivered nothing but misery, suffering,
failure, and death.
They've served not to weaken Israel, but
to annihilate the very forces that did
the most to fment this hatred. And it's
really, I mean, everybody that's tried
it has become
irrelevant.
Meanwhile, we've seen those nations that
set aside their differences, reached
across ancient divides, and pursued
engagement are now among the most
successful in the region. They're
getting along with Israel and they're
doing great. And I can tell you the four
nations that joined the Abraham Accords
early on and you'd all be doing me a
favor and and I'm going to be saying
this in a little while to some other
friends. Would love you all to Is this
right Jared? Join up in the Abraham
Accords. We have to join up and get
together. You can have that whole thing
filled out. We had a very weak
administration, worst president in the
history of our country by far. And
Barack Obama was not far behind, by the
way.
[Applause]
And they did nothing with this
incredible document, the Abraham
Accords, but now you can fill them up.
Now you have peace. You have people that
really like Israel. Well, I'll tell you
what, and they like Israel a lot more
today than they did even five weeks ago.
Like, you've made a lot of you've you've
come back. You've come back strong
because it was getting to be a little
nasty out there in the world. And
ultimately, the world wins. You can't
beat the world always. I would say to
BB, BB, it's now time. And he understood
it better than anybody because
ultimately, you know, the world's a very
big place. And I've said a lot. I said,
"This piece of land is very small. It's
unbelievable what you've done with that
tiny." You look at a map even of just
not the world, the Middle East, and you
have this little dot and think of what
you've done. It's incredible.
It's incredible.
[Applause]
But the world is loving
the world is loving Israel again. And I
said to you know the world is big and
it's strong and Ron ultimately the world
wins and we don't have to worry about
that now but there was getting to be a a
period of time over the last few months
you know the the world wanted peace and
Israel wanted peace. Everybody did.
Everybody did. And what a victory it's
been, right? What a victory it's been.
If you would have gone on for three,
four more years, keep fighting,
fighting, fighting. It was, it was
getting bad. It was getting heated. The
timing of this is brilliant. And I said,
BB, you're going to be remembered for
this far more than if you kept this
thing going, going, going, kill, kill,
kill. It would be uh not it would not be
the same. And I just want to
congratulate you for having the courage
to say that's it. We've won and now
let's enjoy our lives and let's rebuild
Israel and make it stronger and bigger
and better than it's ever been before.
We're going to do that.
Took a lot of guts.
And the choice for Palestinians could
not be more clear. This is their chance
to turn forever from the path of terror
and violence. It's been extreme. To
exile the wicked forces of hate that are
in their midst. And I think that's going
to happen. I've met some people over the
last couple of months that want to see
it happen very much. And after
tremendous pain and death and hardship,
now is the time to concentrate on
building their people up instead of
trying to tear Israel down. And we don't
want that to happen again.
And the total focus of Gazins must be on
restoring the fundamentals of stability,
safety, dignity, and economic
development so they can finally have the
better life that their children really
do deserve after all these decades of
horror.
I intend to be a partner in this effort
in the sense that we're going to help
and we're going to do something that
became unbelievably popular. Everybody
wants to be on it. It's called the Board
of Peace. Okay. How about that? Is that
a beautiful name? Like a board of peace.
The only bad thing from my standpoint,
every single nation involved has asked
me to be the chair.
And I'll tell you, I'm very busy. I
didn't count on that. But you know what?
If we do it, we'll do it right. And we
have unbelievable
uh power and wealth because you're going
to need wealth. You're going to need
wealth to rebuild things. And they have
wealth like few people have wealth. I
want to thank the Arab and Muslim
nations for their commitment because
they've made to support a safe
rebuilding of Gaza and beyond. I have
many Arab countries, very wealthy
countries that came up and said we'll
put up tremendous amounts of money to
get uh rebuilt to rebuild
Gaza. And I think that's going to
happen. The power, they want dignity.
they want to come forward and they want
to say and I want to say who they are
because uh what they're doing is going
to be I think something that you're
going to be very impressed with BB and
uh you need that you need the kind of
economic power that they have and they
want to see it work and they want to see
it be safe and they want to see it be
good for Israel too
and as much money as it will be and it's
a lot as you can see it's a
For these countries, it's relatively
little relative to their worth. It's
really a lot of money, like money like
most people could never even conceive.
But for these countries, it's not that
much. Especially because it ensures
success and stability in the Middle
East, which is what they want to see. So
many of them will be with us in Egypt in
a little while, I think. I'm not sure.
They may be gone.
They may have taken their Boeing 747s
and left.
I said, "What kind of a plane do you
fly?" Uh 747. I said, "That's a large
plane." No, they may have. Steve, do you
think they've left on their Boeing 7
their brand new Boeing 747s or I don't
know. We're going to find out soon. It's
going to be a big story.
There'll be two people left
and they'll be the two poorest ones.
[Applause]
But
but it will be the wealthiest and most
powerful group of nations. So the group
that we have assembled that's waiting
for us is the wealthiest and most
powerful group ever assembled at one
time. There has never been a group like
this. And they're only looking for good.
They want good. They're going to do
good. And as those commitments are made,
I'm going to let the world know who's
doing it because they really deserve to
get the credit. And some of them
probably won't want the credit, but they
deserve it. It's more obvious than ever
that the productive and responsible
nations of this region should not be
enemies or adversaries. You should be
partners and eventually even friends.
And that's what's going to happen. I
know it. Together, you can stand against
the forces of chaos. Yeah. You go ahead.
That's an important thing
>> because you can stand against the forces
of chaos that threatened all of your
interests and it's always a big threat,
always a big threat and unleash
incredible prosperity and opportunity
for all the people of these lands. And
that's what's going to happen. You're
going to unleash numbers and success the
likes of which Israel has never been
able to think of because you're so uh
firm and and you should be and you've
done the right thing in defending
yourself. You're not going to have to
worry so much about it. You've won and
now you can build and you can do things
that you never even thought possible.
It's going when you put that genius into
doing something else. It's going to be
something that's it's going to be a
miracle. The miracle in the desert. It's
going to be amazing. and it already is
in a true sense. But it'll be wonderful
when you can spend time thinking about
other than war and defense and offense
also. To that end, it's my firm hope and
dream frankly that together the uh
Abraham Accords will turn out to be
everything that we thought they would.
Those four countries were very very
brave in doing it. They did it at a very
early point and every single one of them
benefits unbelievably financially. Uh
and if you noticed even in this bad
period that we just went through, they
all remained a member of the Abraham
Accords. They've done unbelievably well.
And I just and you know who you are and
I want to thank you.
And they've stayed because of loyalty,
but they've also stayed because it was
really good business. They've made a lot
of money being members and you're going
to all I think I hope that everyone of I
hope that every one of the countries
that we're seeking Jared I hope they
join quickly no games no nothing just
join get it it's going to be a great
peacemaker it's really going to bring it
together beyond any anybody's wildest
dreams so instead of building fortresses
to keep enemies at bay the nations of
this region should be building
infrastructure ffstruure to weave your
commerce closer together because you've
got to compete with the big world out
there on commerce now. It's a different
kind of competition. Instead of making
weapons and missiles, the wealth of this
region should flow to schools and
medicine industry and frankly the new
hot thing artificial intelligence.
It's uh boy, it's a lot of intelligence
they're going to have to be throwing off
to make to pay back these uh sums of
money that they're doing. But that's
that's really the hot one. And I might
say that the United States
a year ago was a dead country. I say it
to people. I heard it first from the
king of Saudi Arabia. I then heard it
from UAE. I heard it from Qatar. I heard
it from many other countries. A year
ago, the United States of America was a
dead country. Now, it's the hottest
country anywhere in the world. It is the
hottest. There's no question about it.
In fact, if you go back a year ago
before the election, although once we
had November 5th, we became hot because
people got it. I would say November 5th
was a time that we became really hot.
But once you go back a couple of years,
uh, if I were in charge and the country
was doing what they, nobody was going to
ask me to speak, nobody asked Joe Biden
to come up and speak. I guarantee you
that. And if they did, he would have
turned them down. I promise you. He
didn't speak. He didn't speak. And he
didn't speak well. But all of the
countries in the Middle East, it could
have what we what we're doing now, it
could have happened a long time ago, but
it was strangled and set back almost
irretrievably by the administrations of
Barack Obama and then Joe Biden. It was
uh there was a hatred toward Israel.
There was an absolute hatred. The
setbacks really started when President
Obama signed the Iran nuclear deal. This
was a disaster for Israel and it was a
disaster for everyone. And I remember
that BB Netanyahu came to the United
States and work so hard to try and get
Obama not to do that deal.
[Applause]
He worked so hard
and but it was like talking to a wall. I
remember him telling me it was like
talking to a wall. They wanted to go
with Iran. They chose Iran, frankly,
over a lot of other good nations, but in
specifically Israel. And that was the
beginning of a very bad period of time.
You had Obama go out and the Iran
nuclear deal turned out to be a
disaster. And by the way, I terminated
the Iran nuclear deal and I was very
proud to do it.
[Applause]
Yet, even to Iran, whose regime has
inflicted so much death on the Middle
East, the hand of friendship and
cooperation is open. I'm telling you,
they want to make a deal. That's all I
do in my life. I make deals. I'm good at
it. I've always been good at it and I
know when they want even if they said we
don't want to make a deal, I can tell
you they want to make a deal.
All right, they do. If they want to make
a deal and we're going to see if we can
do something because this is crazy
what's happening and we're not going to
have this anymore. Neither the United
States nor Israel bear the people of
Iran any hostility. We merely want to
live in peace. We don't want any looming
threats over our heads and we don't want
to even think in terms of nuclear
destruction. It's not going to happen.
Never will happen. There's nothing that
would do more good for this part of the
world than for Iran's leaders to
renounce terrorists, stop threatening
their neighbors, quit funding their
militant proxies, and finally recognize
Israel's right to existence. They have
to do that. They have to do that.
Andrew,
>> what could be a crowning moment for the
president's foreign policy, the
president of the United States
addressing the parliament in Jerusalem,
Israel, before traveling to Egypt for a
signing ceremony following a US-led deal
reached in the last week, which led to
an amazing moment in this region earlier
this morning. Hamas freeing 20 remaining
living Israeli hostages and Israel
releasing 2,000 Palestinian prisoners in
response. Some standout headlines from
this address in the last 60 minutes or
so. the president saying for Israelis,
Palestinians, the nightmare is over.
This will be a golden age for Israel and
for the Middle East as a region.
>> He really emphasized the rejection of
certain extremist policies and started
talking about the need for coalescing as
he heads over to Egypt. A real question
of how much uh he and some of the other
members heads of state that are going to
be meeting are going to lean into the
Abraham Accords and continue a closer
alliance with Israel. really solidifies
though how important this region is as a
geopolitical node for President Trump
and frankly increasingly for the entire
world.
>> The president of the United States, a
differencemaker here. This didn't look
like it was going anywhere for a long,
long time. Moments ago, the president
saying this is the start of an era of
harmony for Israel and for the Middle
East.
>> It's really a foreign policy achievement
thus far for this administration. The
remaining question is what comes next
when it comes to this peace agreement.
The hostages are released. You have
Palestinian prisoners leaving the West
Bank, but how do they redevelop Gaza?
Who is going to run this transitional
authority? So, the president right now
is speaking in Jerusalem, but how many
times has he said, "I'm going to Egypt
next and Charmeal Shake and it's going
to be an unprecedented peace summit."
That is where his mind is right now
because that could be a continuation of
what started under Trump won, which is
an expansion of the Abraham Accords.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. As we count you down to the
open about about 90 minutes away, equity
futures have bounced back following
remarks from the president over the
weekend. Just dialing back the
temperature between the US and China.
We'll bring you market coverage in just
a moment. Want to cross over to
Bloomberg's Ole Crook who's on the
ground in Jerusalem. Ollie, welcome
back. As Amarie said, just to build on
her words, a crowning moment potentially
for the president's foreign policy, but
what's next and how durable will this
piece be?
Yeah, Jonathan, I think that that is
sort of the main question here before us
is the durability of the sort of
experimental foreign policy that has
gotten us to an outcome that would be
really very impossible um to imagine
coming together in this way under really
any other kind of president. And the
question I think today, I mean, we
should just mark the moment, this moment
of Trump speaking, still speaking before
the Knesset, really going uh thanking
his entire team and some nods to kind of
what his ultimate goal is for the
region, talking about the Abraham
Accords, talking about bringing peace uh
to Gaza into trying to redevelop it into
a prosperous um economic zone. But as
you say, Jonathan, we are in the
foothills of what uh is going to be a
very complex and very long discussion
about how to get there. Exactly. And I
think that the joy today from the
Israeli side, the joy today from the
Palestinian side as they take their
prisoners back, it masks the bitter
bitter bitter complexity of the issues
that are still to come and need to be
discussed and that will begin to be
brokered in this meeting um in Egypt a
little bit later. The question is going
to be who will the stakeholders be and
what will their commitment be to try to
bring a security into the region of
Gaza. Remember this has always been the
sort of main sticking point. You need a
security arrangement within Gaza that
the Israelis can live with that
theoretically the Israelis are not sort
of um running but at the same time that
the p Palestinians find to be
legitimate. You need that in place in
order to have a governing structure on
top of that this sort of technocratic uh
board uh that is going to be overseen by
the sort of board of peace by Donald
Trump and he says a great many leaders
who want to be involved. But before that
before any of that happens Jonathan
there needs to be a conversation about
Hamas. What happens next with Hamas? Are
they willing to lay down their arms? To
what degree? There are provisions within
Trump's 20point plan to say that
basically anyone who's willing to lay
down their arms will be granted amnesty,
will be uh granted uh safe passage. But
even in the last few days, Jonathan,
we've had reports of Hamas reasserting
itself within uh within Gaza. Uh also
punishing Palestinians that have been
sort of seen as cooperating with the
IDF. So these are the sort of
prerequisites to make any sort of of the
great gestures that Trump is talking
about here. talking about a historic dom
dawn for the new Middle East and God
willing eternal an eternity of peace.
That eternity of peace is still many
many steps away and that is the very
difficult and grueling process that will
begin a little bit later in Egypt today.
The hard work continues. Ali, thank you.
Great work this morning tracking this
story. Bloomberg's Ollie Krook in
Jerusalem. As we can't get down to that
opening power, just to reflect on the
price action this morning, equity
futures a whole lot firmer on the S&P
500. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Sema Sha, principal asset
management as stocks bounce back. Soul
Martinez of HSBC as we look ahead to key
bank earnings later this week and
Abigail W of UBS as the government
shutdown enters its third week. We begin
this hour with stocks bouncing back as
President Donald Trump tempers his trade
stance on China. Seash of Principal
Asset Management writing the following.
Even after the strong performance of the
past 6 months with the S&P 500 up 35%
from its liberation day trough, equity
markets have further room to run. Sema
joins us now for more. Sema, welcome to
the program. Will you get a helping hand
from earnings season and from bank
earnings this week?
Hey, John. Yeah, I think that's that is
uh definitely on the cards. You know,
when we're looking across at the macro
outlook, we're still feeling pretty
positive. Of course, there are some
signs of slowdown within the labor
market, but we're not talking about
recessionary area. Um, and typically in
this kind of environment, we can see
continued performance from financials.
Um, so along with those tech stocks
which continue to drive the market, we
would think that financials uh can join
in with that rally and help push the
equity market a little bit further.
>> Sema, it's not just bank earnings on the
calendar, also a meeting potentially
between the two leaders from China, from
the US, President Trump and leader Xi.
Sema, how big a factor will that be in
your outlook? The trade negotiations,
the friction, the tension between China
and the United States?
>> Yeah, it's a great question because, you
know, in the last couple of weeks is
completely fallen out of the headlines.
You know, nobody really talking about
the risk associated with it. So, the
news on Friday, I think, did come as a
clearly did jolt the market. Um, it has
a potential to have very very serious uh
impact on the economy both from a growth
side and from an inflation side. So we
obviously have to keep a close eye on
that. At the moment from our
perspective, we're going to go along the
the assumption that things eventually
kind of work themselves out uh simply
because the risk is so big. Uh but it
does clearly have the potential and so
investors and I think I think the key
thing is that there has been so much
complacency within the market about what
could happen to um how much further the
equity market could run that this has
been um a good reminder that there are
still risks on the horizon. risks of
reescalation between the US and China.
How much does it also reiterate the risk
that this is not just a one-time price
shock, but it's an ongoing process of
tariffs that come on and different waves
and price effects that happen over time.
Kind of like what we saw from Levis's
last week.
>> Yeah. And you know, Lisa, I mean, I I
think this is one of the things that
we've been considering is that from the
tariff perspective, this is an ongoing
story. We know that tariffs are going to
be used continuously as a geopolitical
tool. um and for any other kind of
negotiations that the US is looking to
do. We're also expecting um even before
Friday that tariffs would continue to
move a little bit higher. They change in
focus sectors uh more company focused.
So I think this is still inbuilt but we
have seen time and time again that from
a market perspective these kind of
headlines they do start to move back and
back and back in people's uh mindsets
especially as companies do start to to
kind of um navigate their way through.
So it's not to say that there won't be
any impact. There will be. It is
contributing to an economic slowdown.
But we're not looking at something which
is um recession-like provided the US
China negotiations do move in the right
direction over the coming weeks. So if
there isn't really that great of a
chance of recession, which is what I'm
hearing from you, do you buy any dip?
Was what we saw on Friday something that
you want to welcome usher in and dive
into?
I do think I mean I think any kind of
noise either with regards to the
shutdown or even with the the trade
tensions these are opportunities because
we're trying to look beyond the noise
and you know this has been a really good
learning for this year is that back in
April when uh everyone was really
worried about recession they worried
about how there was going to be a very
significant market correction we are up
very very significantly from those
moments and the market has managed to
look through so we would assume that
this is going to be a continuation uh
valuations are that much higher uh the
economic backdrop is a little bit
slower. So, you know, we're not going to
be expecting to see gains as significant
as we've had in the last couple of
months. But to our mind, this is still a
positive setup for equities. The the
issue though with what's going on with
trade is that JD Vance is talking about
the fact that it's up to Beijing to
choose the path of reason. Does it not
feel different this time than it did in
the spring?
there are definitely differences and I
think the key thing is that you know
China is showing that it has a lot of
power in this you know it's got a very
very strong negotiating tool um so it's
very much sitting in I guess in in their
area and you know what is the US going
to do to to kind of bring down the
tensions so there is a difference but I
think at the end of the day because the
impact could be so serious it's almost
that too big to fail situation which we
would assume is going to is going to
push both sides to some kind of um
negotiation point. You know, it doesn't
necessarily mean that we're going to be
looking at lower tariffs. We could be
even looking at slightly higher tariffs
than where they are today, but we
wouldn't expect there to be a move back
to the 100 135% tariffs that we did see
earlier this year.
>> Do you think this just gets done by
November 1st where the president said
that seems like an eternity for him, or
is this a 2026 story for the market?
>> I think we can get somewhere by November
the 1st and I have to say I think it's
going to be very very rocky road with a
lot of noise, a lot of back and forth.
Um but certainly I think that the issues
with China is not something which can be
put to bed very quickly. I would assume
that this is going to be a situation
that we're going to be talking about
through 2026 through 2027 and that
rivalry between the two countries is
going to be something which is a
continued pain point which uh comes back
to rock the market every now and then
over the foreseeable future. What was
interesting and John pointed this out
earlier is that on Friday we saw a rally
into US treasuries and this was
different than what we saw after the
August uh the April 2nd liberation day
and it raises the question about whether
the market is looking through any kind
of price shocks as one time transitory
or whether it's complacent about the
inflationary ramifications of this
decoupling between the US and China over
a longer period of time. How do you see
that?
Yeah, it's an interesting one because
you know the last couple of months you
haven't really seen the inflation impact
that people are anticipating in April
and so I think that what we saw in
Friday was just this assumption that you
know this is a continuation. There will
only be a one-time shock. It'll be very
modest. Uh this is really really early
days. So to our minds one of the key
risks that we do need to look out for in
2026 is you know the inflation numbers
moving a little bit higher than
anticipated. At the moment we're
expecting CPI to be hovering around the
kind of the mid I should say the 3.2 2
to 3.3% level. Uh if we were to see it
move above the 3 and a half% towards a
4% number, well then I think the the
equations kind of change. Um and I think
that that would be a real sticking point
for the market. But it is really early
days and I think as we go into to
earning season, that to us is going to
be the key thing that we're listening
out for. What are CEOs telling us um
about the price impact, how much they're
planning to to be passing on. And I
think that that picture won't be very
clear until we're looking into Q1 or Q2
of next year. Simar of Principal Asset
Management. Sema, thanks for jumping on.
Appreciate it. Appreciate your time.
Thank you. I'm pleased you went there. I
think this is so important. I'm sitting
here again after about two hours of this
program reflecting on the fact that I
think we've barely spoken about the
Federal Reserve for more than 2 minutes
and I'm always thinking about what are
we missing? What's the market missing?
What are people not talking about? What
do they need to consider more? The
prospect of the Federal Reserve not
cutting interest rates beyond the next
meeting. say a Federal Reserve that
until May when you get the leadership
change is trapped in disagreement about
what's happening in the labor market and
ultimately what's about to happen to
inflation too. Now we won't get CPI this
week because of the government shutdown.
But if you look at the estimates for
when we will get the CPI release which
is going to be October 24th I believe
we're looking at a three-handle. You've
got a three-handle on inflation. I think
you've got a much stronger case for the
hawks on the FOMC to say what are we
doing guys over at the Federal Reserve
cutting interest rates with inflation
running in the threes and it's that
sticky point between now May and the
leadership change of the FOMC which I
think needs some more attention.
>> I think you're absolutely right how much
this is going to be a Fed that pushes
back because of inflation and how much
is this going to be a market that pushes
back. One thing people have pointed to
is the long end of the yield curve has
been incredibly complacent. hasn't
really talked about some sort of huge
spike up in uh inflation. You're seeing
that in break even rates as well. Does
that start to shift if you don't get a
change in tone from the Federal Reserve?
>> Stocks are doing okay this morning so
far. Up by 1% on the S&P 500, taking a
bite out of the losses from Friday.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Lizzie Burton. Hey,
Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. President Donald Trump
heading to Egypt now for a Middle East
peace ceremony after speaking at the
Israeli Knesset. He spoke following the
release of all 20 living hostages from
Gaza. Once the hostages are freed,
Israel has agreed to free almost 2,000
Palestinian prisoners and allow more aid
into the Gaza Strip. The Trump
administration is also signaling that
it's open to doing a deal with China
days after announcing new 100% tariffs
effective November 1st. The relationship
between the two countries soured last
week when China announced new export
controls on rare earths. President Trump
posted on social media, quote, "Don't
worry about China. It'll all be fine."
And First Brand names Charles Moore as
its interim CEO after CEO Patrick James
stepped down effective immediately. The
auto parts company is facing increased
scrutiny over its sudden collapse. The
Justice Department is examining how Wall
Street lenders missed red flags before
First Brands filed for bankruptcy, owing
more than $10 billion. And that should
be my brief. John,
>> Lizzie, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Lizzie in about 30 minutes time. Up
next, the morning calls plus S Martinez
of HSBC as we preview key bank earnings
on deck through this week, Tuesday, and
Wednesday. From New York City this
morning, good morning.
[Music]
I think the world is at the early stages
of almost
an ESG type moment. This is just going
to expand and expand. I do think we're
going to have economic friction,
terrorists with China. So that's going
to be a bit of a way on some parts of
the market. And the other part, anything
that's production for security, pharma,
tech, chips, rarers, critical minerals,
natural gas, all those things should do
very very well. There is going to be
some serious investment on that front.
That was Peter Cheer of Academy
Securities. If you're just joining us,
welcome as we count you down to the open
and bound. 1 hour 13 minutes away.
Equities bouncing back, futures up by
more than 1% on the S&P on the Nasdaq
100, higher by 1.8%. That's the price
action. Here are your morning calls.
First up, Bank of America downgrading
Intel to underperform, saying the stock
has gone quote too far too fast. Next
up, Mizuo raising its price target on
Nvidia to 225, expecting China Headwinds
to be muted. That stock is up by 3% this
morning. And finally, City cutting its
price target on Blackstone to 170,
saying to wait for a better entry point.
If this ain't it, I don't know what that
entry point looks like. We're up by 1.6%
this morning. Those stocks have been
hammered over the past month or so.
We'll get to them in just a moment.
Let's stick to the financials with a
slew of earnings out this week. S
Martinez of HSBC writing, "We expect
third quarter 25 results to reinforce
the positive narrative driving the
outperformance of large cap US banks and
brokers." Soul joins us now for more.
Soul, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. I touched on it
there. Blackstone, KKR, Apollo, they've
been hammered over the past few weeks.
It feels like the markets treating them
as a proxy for some of the developments
we've seen in private markets, first
brands, tririccolor, all that stuff.
>> How are the banks exploring those
stories at the moment?
>> Yeah, I think right now and and it
actually has impacted the bank stocks
some. You have seen since we put out our
preview a few weeks ago, the banks uh
that I that I cover down 5 to 10%. And
part of it is uh the realization that
you know the macro dynamics are still a
little bit unclear and credit is is um
something to focus on. I think at this
point though credit should be fine for
the banks. Just remember the banks the
big banks especially those that are
systemically important have been very
conservative really since the GFC in
terms of their lending portfolio and
that's really been what's allowed
private credit non-bank lenders to take
share. So there has been that
conservatism and I think if you look at
some of the the data thus far uh the
credit card issuer data u through August
you're actually seeing better
performance on credit cards better
delinquency rates better NCOs's year on
year the the most recent updates that
the banks have given as of you know
early to midseptember suggest that the
commercial loan portfolios are
performing well um commercial real
estate's doing well that said look
you're right you have had some some some
credit um situation like first brands um
you know you had CarMax having bad
results so it is something I think that
will be monitored I don't think it's
something that will show up in results I
don't see this quarter being one where
you start to see uh credit you know
worsening but I think you have to look
for things like are delinquency rates
moving higher are banks reserving more
because that gives you a proxy for their
you know what what their estimated
losses are they classifying more
commercial loans into um you know
criticized asset buckets. So those are
things that that you know we'll be
monitoring. I think the banks are are
fine for now. But but you know that said
I I I do think it pays to pay attention
and to look at banks who have who are
you know good underwriters but are also
well reserved um for you know for
potential losses.
>> You make a lot of great points and I
think one point of the past cycle has
been that private credit is pulled up in
business that banks might have taken on
earlier but they now have. I just wonder
if there's another message here. Can you
really have a reaceleration in the US
economy if you have these potholes in
consumer credit in auto lending in other
areas that raise red flags about just
how quickly this economy actually is uh
reacelerating?
>> Yeah, I mean look that's that is that is
um you know a fair point. I think the
you know the bullcase for banks right
now is that you have you know good e
economic backdrop um you know moderate
growth interest rates across the curve
are at you know we have positive real
rates across the curve so that is
allowing for net interest income to grow
and more recently you've actually had
some optimism about loan growth loan
growth has actually picked up for the
banks um the quiet of that loan growth
we can talk about but there has been
some improvement so the the the the the
positive view for banks is that revenue
picks up, but that really depends on
rates staying where they're at. It
really depends on the economy continuing
to grow. If you were to see a soft patch
in the economy and you know the Fed cuts
more than what's priced in, which is I
think about five times this morning when
I checked and the two and fiveyear part
of the curve is also important and that
has come in. You're still at levels that
are well anchored in that support asset
yield expansion. In other words, fixed
rate assets and and loans are repricing
to higher rates and and there's a
benefit there is a little bit less of a
benefit than there was 6 months ago.
That said, if the the situation you
described where um you know the economy
really hits a soft patch and happens,
rates will come down across the curve.
That's actually what happened in 2018.
Remember in the first Trump
administration, banks did very well in
2016 and 2017 for very similar reasons.
And we had tax reform, uh, fiscal
policy, um, you expansionary fiscal
policy, and then 2018, 2019 came and,
you know, rates, you know, collapsed
across the curve and bank stocks really
underperformed during most of Trump's
first presidency. So that that is a
risk. I I don't think we'll get there
for a lot of reasons, but certainly, you
know, a weak economy is is one that is
not consistent with the bull case for
banks. Up until now, there's been this
competition between private asset
managers and the banks, and it's been fa
uh the sense has been that private asset
managers have had the upper hand. Can
you put into context the JP Morgan
announcement this morning about the $1.5
trillion of financing for specific
strategic areas in the United States and
pair it with this sort of race or do you
think it's completely separate story? I
don't know if it's it's um
um I I I I don't know if it's it's you
know completely you know uh related. I I
think you know for the banks what what
the banks are trying to do the banks are
trying to service their clients
effectively right um and they're
entering into relationships with private
credit firms. Um but for a bank, you
know, a lending relationship often is
sort of an anchor, right? They they're
not making high profitability in the
lending relationship, but it it's the
other business that is associated with
it. you provide credit, but you also get
the investment banking, the treasury
services, um you know, the the core
deposits and and it often probably makes
sense more economically for banks to um
provide a full service for their
corporate clients, but not necessarily
to keep the risk on their balance sheet
and you know, partner with private
credit firms. So, I think with JP Morgan
and a lot of the banks, and they're
doing it somewhat differently, JP Morgan
is keeping some of it on their balance
sheet. They're pro trying to provide
their corporate clients with all the
financing and all the potential, you
know, um products that uh uh lending
products that are that are out there and
cap that they need um while still
partnering with private credit. So, so
it is a sort of a frenemies type of
relationship, right? You know, they're
they're you know, the private credit has
taken share in terms of lending, but it
it's also a vehicle for banks to sort
of, you know, partner with private
credit, offload some of that risk, but
maintain that relationship with with the
corporate. Alisa brought up JP Morgan.
Got about 60 seconds left. They report
tomorrow. Goldman Sachs as well. Fair to
say you're less constructive on those
two names.
>> We are. We are.
>> Um it's valuation really. I mean, you
know, I I came here last time 3 months
ago and I just downgraded them and you
know feel feel the same way. I think for
JP Morgan the I think for both the
quarter should be fine. I think it
should be reasonably good. But JP Morgan
is trading at 2.9 times tangible book
value. you're pricing in a heck of a lot
there and you know they have a lot of
excess capital but buying back stock at
2.9 times tangible book value is not
necessarily the best uh may not be the
best use of capital I think Jamie
Diamond would agree with that right so
that that the fact that they're not
buying back their own stock does tell
you something I think Goldman has some
you know some tailwinds there you feel
like I'm swimming against the tide
sometimes with being you know cautious
on Goldman but look if if the market
does take a breather um you're at 15
times earnings over half of the revenue
of Goldman and sales and trading. That's
not a high multiple revenue stream. Um,
so we just think the riskreward here is
is, you know, over time much more skewed
to the downside with both of those
stocks. It's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thank you, sir. S Martin
there of HSBC looking ahead to earnings
from JP Morgan, Goldman City, Wells
Fargo tomorrow onto Wednesday when we
hear from Bank of America and Morgan
Stanley.
>> And expect to hear a lot about
investment banking, the mergers and
acquisitions that we've been hearing
about and that Jeffrey said that they
had a record revenue from. Let's hear
what JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs has to
say tomorrow.
>> Looking ahead to earning season for the
big banks. Coming up next on the
program, Abigail Ward of UBS as the
government shutdown enters week three.
Plus, Yihara has your morning movers.
Warner Brothers Discovery Higher on
reports the company has rebuffed
Paramount Sky Dance's initial takeover
approach.
Snapping a two-day losing streak on the
S&P 500, bouncing back from the biggest
1-day loss since April 10th. Equity
futures are buying more than 1% this
morning on the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ 100
up by 1.7 as we count you down to the
opening bell about 60 minutes away with
your morning movers with more. Here's
Yahara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. You said it. We are bouncing
back. Nvidia and AMD shares both rising
in the pre-market up more than 3% along
with the rest of the mag 7. And that is
because President Trump struck a more
optimist struck a softer tone on China
over the weekend, saying that he wants
to help China, not hurt it, despite him
threatening 100% tariffs on the country.
But these chips are of course central to
the trade negotiations because they are
core to the US China tech rivalry.
Meanwhile, moving on to shares of Warner
Brothers Discovery. They're up 4.6% 6%
on our reporting that it rejected
Paramount Sky Dance's offer as being too
low. We're reporting the offer was
around $20 per share, just above where
we're trading now. But that Warner
Brothers Discovery was looking for
something closer to $40 a share. And we
end on StubHub. Another rally here, up
more than 5% in the pre-market after it
received a wave of bullish ratings by
analysts on Wall Street after its
September IPO. The company is already a
major player in the secondary ticketing
market, but they say that it is well
positioned to be a big player in the
primary ticketing market and that it
will likely get a big boost from big
events like the 2026 World Cup because
you know those tickets are going to be
off the charts. John,
>> offensively off the charts. Yhara, thank
you. Ridiculous. Have you seen some of
the prices?
>> I knew you were going to go here.
>> Of course.
>> Of course. It's sort of like, well,
let's talk about ticket prices.
>> Basically like don't buy anything for
the entire year. I'm going to host
viewing parties at mine instead.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Everyone's invited.
>> Select few invited. Everyone is
>> You're a fan of Pharaoh rather house.
>> Don't do that. Okay. One more stock for
you. The world Disney company in the
pre-market up by 2.5%. The power of
Taylor Swift. Taylor Swift announcing
new programming for Disney Plus for the
month of December. And the stock
straight away just like that. Yeah.
Higher
>> content still king. And I think that
that was what we've been hearing that
honestly a Netflix CEO talking about the
importance of getting more content even
though we had been overcontentized.
That's not a word. Uh I think people are
leaning back into the idea of getting
the key names
>> saturated.
>> Thank you.
>> But I liked your phrase better anyway.
>> Yeah. Like media speed. They just make
things up.
>> You know, content size.
>> Yeah. As always,
>> I'm looking at these tickets. They're
unbelievable. They're for the world.
>> Give me a price. You want to go back to
that?
>> Okay. So if you want to sit close,
you're looking at 20 to $30,000.
>> That's for the final.
>> You are looking at one ticket. I four
left. $101,000
could be yours. This is insanity.
$228,000
65,000
$17,000 for per ticket.
>> I guess we're not I guess we're not
going to the World Cup
>> viewing parties at Bramos 2. All right.
And that really is for everyone. Okay.
>> Oh, is that your comeback? Don't do that
either. Okay, turning to the economy.
Another week of data that may well be
delayed, but we will get some Fed speak
over the next few days. Tracking that is
Bloomberg's Mike McKe. Mike's holding
parties, too. Viewing parties for
economic data, Mike. October 24th. I
heard we're all coming round. We're
skipping the show and we're waiting for
CPI. Mike, is that the date we now get
the inflation report?
>> That's the date we now get the inflation
report. We won't get it this week. Uh, I
was just thinking with what you were
talking about, the price of the athletic
event admissions is going to really feed
into CPI next year. So, let's hope we
get back to the CPI releases so we can
find out what it does to the economy
overall. I'm in Philadelphia where the
National Association for Business
Economics is holding its annual meeting
and it is about the Fed here. 72% of the
economists here surveyed by the group
say that the Fed is about where it
should be right now and they only expect
one more rate cut this year. We'll get
some hints as to whether they're on the
mark with a lot of Fed speak. I put Anna
Pollson's full name up there. She is the
new Philadelphia Fed president. This is
her maiden speech that she is making at
noon today. So, everybody will want to
pay attention to that. The highlight of
the week is J. pal, the Fed chair,
speaking here at the NAB meeting
tomorrow on the economy. Everybody's
going to want to know what he says about
what they do next. You can see a couple
of these people are speaking several
times. Mickey Bowman speaking twice,
Chris Waller speaking twice. And how
many are you going to find this week? He
was put on the Fed to make the
president's case for lower rates and
he's going to make it over and over and
over again. Now, uh we aren't going to
get CPI, as you mentioned. That's
October 24th. But there are some other
key numbers we're not going to get this
week. We're not going to get uh jobless
claims. We're not going to get retail
sales. And we're not going to get the
PPI. And of course, Friday, housing
starts and import prices along with
industrial production, which is put out
by the Fed, but they use numbers from
the other reports. So, they can't do it
either. So, uh, it's going to be very
interesting to see, uh, what the Fed has
to say this week, what J Pal tells the
economists here, and how they're going
to translate that into what they think
is going to happen to the economy. And I
got to tell you, uh, there was a lot of
talk last night about the president and
China and whether or not we're going to
get those additional tariffs and there's
real concern that if they do go through,
that's going to be a big negative.
>> Interesting. Mike, thank you. Looking
forward to your coverage of the event
over in Philadelphia and looking ahead
to what we could hear from Chairman Pal
later this week as well. Let's stick
with the data. Still impacted by the
government shutdown. Abigail Ward of UBS
writing the following. If the government
reopens early in the week, it's possible
that we may receive the September
employment situation within two or three
business days. Abigail joins us now for
more. Abigail, if we don't, we could
have this really strange situation at
the end of the month where the Federal
Reserve has the CPI report but doesn't
have payrolls, has CPI about 3% and
still decides to cut interest rates. How
uncomfortable might that moment be?
Morning.
Thanks for thanks for having me join.
Um, yeah, look, I think you're totally
right to focus in on the kind of balance
between the labor market and the
inflation data. I think that's clearly
what drove the the cut in the the
September meeting was this shift towards
concerns over the labor market. And
while we might not get the September
employment report, as you say, the FOMC
are expected to get the um September CPI
data later this month, which I think
will be helpful for them in
understanding kind of potentially where
that balance of risks is. I would say
that even though we don't have the um
September employment report, we do have
kind of other data that we can look at
to get a sense of the state of the labor
market. And in particular, you know,
we've been looking very closely at what
we're seeing in the the initial and
continuing claims data. These data are
not being published, you know, in the
normal kind of formal report from the
Department of Labor, but we are able to
kind of patch together the kind of state
level data and you're continuing to see
kind of elevated levels of continuing
claims in those data as well versus this
point last year. So, I do think that
that that kind of balance between the
two um you know, the labor market data
and the inflation side will keep the Fed
on track to kind of cut at the the
meeting at the end of the month.
Abigail, what initially kicked off the
sense that the Fed might be behind the
curve and needed to catch up by cutting
rates was the revisions to the payrolls
that really came in so much more
significantly than people expected. But
Senald Desai uh was on the show last
week and she said actually what it means
is that the economy was doing pretty
well without all of those jobs and
without that job creation. Doesn't that
speak to a wave of productivity, not
necessarily to a real weakness? I mean,
how do you sort of square these ideas
that maybe we are just operating with a
lower job creation base?
>> Yeah, look, I think obviously there's
been, you know, a wealth of people kind
of coming out with estimates of what the
run rate of kind of payrolls or the run
rate of employment growth might look
like, particularly obviously given the
shifts we're seeing in terms of
potentially population growth, but also
kind of what we're seeing in terms of
changes in participation rates. I think
we've seen obviously participation kind
of coming off a little bit and I think
that's probably um likely driven by
cyclicality rather than say kind of
demographics which has been the kind of
downdrift that we've seen there um in in
kind of recent years. I think the
question in terms of the kind of run
rate and and kind of the the tying
together of what we're seeing in terms
of growth in the labor market. I think
really what you've seen is step down
just in terms of demand within the
within the labor market. I do think it's
potentially more demand driven than it
is supply driven at this juncture. And I
think one of the things we have seen is
obviously a lot of a lot of noise in
terms of the growth numbers with swings
from kind of noisy components. But you
have seen a step down in terms of the
pace of domestic demand that underlying
pace of demand in the US economy was
relatively soft through the first half
of this year versus where it was last
year. So I do think the kind of slowdown
you've seen in the labor market and the
slowdown you've seen in in kind of the
broader economy are kind of broadly
consistent with one another. How do you
score that with Delta and I know that
this is sort of not a perfect data set
but it's the data set that we have.
Delta reported earnings and it was
better than expected and they said they
see no reason for the for there to be
any softness in the path ahead. They're
seeing demand really pick up across the
board. How do you square that with the
decelerating in labor demand that you
just talked about?
>> Yeah, look, I think I think there's um a
a potential reason for that could be
that we are seeing a narrowing I think
in terms of the drivers of consumption,
right? So, one of the things that we've
been referencing for a while is that
we'd expected that the lower end of the
income spectrum would become under more
pressure through the beginning of this
year. And I do think we have seen that.
I think one of the things we have seen
though is that the upper income groups
are continuing to sit on relatively
healthy balance sheets and there's a
number of elements that um we're seeing
in terms of the income data particularly
the NIPER revisions with a big in a big
kind of revision in terms of dividend
income supporting income growth in
recent years and I think that's also
unlikely to be equally distributed
across the income distribution. So if
you think about kind of where the the
kind of support for kind of recreational
services is coming from, it's likely to
be coming from those upper income groups
disproportionately. So I think that's a
that's the reason why, you know, we have
a slowing in terms of the economy. We
have a slowing in terms of consumption
given the potential for kind of pass
through of tariff headwinds later this
year. Um but we don't have an outright
contraction and I do think it is because
you do have that kind of stronger upper
income group um in particular still kind
of able to support um you know the pace
of consumption as we go forward.
>> Abigail when it comes to tariffs, how
are you thinking about the latest
rhetoric we have when it comes to
Beijing and Washington and potentially
an increased tariff rate on China?
>> Yeah, look I mean China is the the area
where we have seen obviously the the
strongest kind of ratcheting up of
tariffs. that they're sitting with the
highest weighted average tariff of kind
of any country and trading partner that
the US has. Um, and I think you know the
the kind of resurgence of the rhetoric
around potential for the 100% tariff um
to be added um late last week. I think
this is just a you know a timely
reminder that this is an area where we
could continue to see tensions kind of
flaring up. Obviously we had the kind of
November 10th deadline already in the
calendar for the potential for the
reciprocal rate on China to increase. I
think, you know, the the kind of
deadline here for the 100% of November
1st potentially gives you a little bit
more time to see kind of more progress
and negotiations between the two. Um, so
I think for now, you know, we're
watching to see how how that progresses.
I think obviously the experience of
earlier this year, we saw a very strong
kind of increase in terms of tariffs on
China that proved relatively
short-lived. So we would be watching to
see kind of how that rhetoric develops
in terms of um before we would want to
kind of think about how that might feed
into into kind of the economic outlook
and our expectations.
>> Abigail, thank you. Appreciate it.
Abigail, what there of UBS with the
latest on the economy, the lack of data
and the Fed speak. You said it, you
brought up Delta. Who needs data when
you've got Delta? It is the Delta Rail
economy
>> and the JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs
economy tomorrow. And we already got a
hint of that from Jeff and all systems
seem to be a go. So at a certain point
if that fills the void, how do you draw
the distinction between a slowdown in
the labor market when engines are really
firing in the retail space in the uh in
the travel space and in the banking
space
>> color trickle whatever it's called I'm
getting confused now first brand a lot
of exposure to subprime the thing is
with the banks they don't have that
exposure to subprime anymore
particularly the consumer and when you
hear from the banks when we break down
the numbers and you hear from the likes
of say bank of America and then you see
the average FICO score the average
credit rating and it's running in the
700s. And if you're not familiar with
credit scores outside of the US, in the
700s, the high 700s, low 800s is an
incredibly high credit score.
>> They've selected the businesses they
want to stay in. And they have
undersshot some of their credit
provisions for a long time. And it
really comes down to specific spots of
issues. I'm talking about subprime auto
loans that were extended out over say 10
years that people had to pay back or
remittances that were directly tied to
immigration policy. Are those pockets
idiosyncratic? People have come on the
show and said yes. There still is
anxiety in markets. What are we missing
after so many years of bounty?
>> I think if you want the average as well,
the average is 710 715 something like
that. Average credit score on this
something like that.
>> Anyway, ridiculous. More bank earnings
through the week, Tuesday and Wednesday.
More Fed speak as well. Chairman Pal in
the next 24 hours going into the
blackout period. The quiet period starts
for the Fed this weekend. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzie.
>> Hey John. The US government shutdown
entering its third week and both sides
are hardening their positions after the
White House ordered the first round of
permanent layoffs on Friday, but
Democrats are sticking to their demand
that Republicans negotiate an extension
of healthcare subsidies before they'll
agree to a stop gap spending bill.
Elsewhere, JP Morgan announced a plan to
invest $1.5 trillion in US security
industries over the next 10 years. The
campaign will ramp up the amount of
capital, resources and personnel that
the bank already dedicates to a variety
of sectors such as rare earth minerals,
pharmaceutical precursors and robotics
or ventures developing defense,
aerospace and energy technologies such
as drones, battery storage and grid
resiliency. And a noraster is battering
the east coast causing major travel
delays, flooding and power outages. As
of 4 p.m. Sunday, more than 230 flights
were cancelled and over 4,000 were
delayed according to flightaware.com.
The US weather prediction center said
that today would be raw and miserable.
That should be my brief. John
>> Lizzy, thank you and thanks for this
morning. Thank you very much. Up next on
the program, setting you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Jean Bavan of Black Rockck
with the US dollar dominance in
question. That conversation up next.
[Music]
we've already started to see weakness
emerge in some of those tariff related
sectors, the consumer related sectors.
Um, and as we think right now, you know,
I I do think that what benefits these
bigger cap names in the S&P, you know,
that can keep earnings afloat, but
frankly, we do wonder if we're starting
to get the peak levels of sentiment.
>> Lori Calverina of RBC looking ahead to
earning season. The big banks kick
things off tomorrow with JP Morgan. As
we count you down to the opening bell,
42 minutes away, equity futures nicely
positive, up by 1.2% right now on the
S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up around 1.8%. As
we count you down to the week ahead
tomorrow, here's the lineup for you.
Your trading diary shaping up as
follows. Bank of America earnings will
be coming on Wednesday. We'll hear from
City and Goldman, JP Morgan, and Wales
tomorrow. Look out for all of that.
Plus, Fed speak from Bowman, B Pal,
Waller, and Collins. On Wednesday, you
get BFA, Morgan, Stanley, and United
Airlines will be reporting. On Thursday,
a lot of data, all dependent on the
government shutdown. So, let's park
that. Let's turn to the US dollar. The
index down 8% year to date facing
ongoing volatility. Jean Bavan, head of
the Black Rockck Investment Institute,
writes, "We see the US dollar slide tied
to expected Fed rate cuts and fiscal
concerns, not evidence. Its reserve
status is under threat." Jean joins us
now for more. John, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> How difficult are people finally get to
draw a distinction between one and the
other?
>> Yeah, I think uh you know, if you look
at this year and the commentaries around
the dollar and so on and uh connect the
dots between um you know uncertainty on
policy and so on it's easy to tell a
story that um investors are more
skittish about the dollar and it's a
specific dollar kind of risk premium
that is being applied but um I mean when
you look under the hood and the fact so
far this year I mean there's no massive
disconnect between the dollar weakness
we've seen and historical fundamentals
behavior um and so on the face of it um
you know there might be down the road
question about the reserve currency
status but I don't think we have the
evidence for it yet Um I think moreover
when you look since the you know all the
discussion about central bank
independence and so on like eated up
over the the summer and a bit before uh
the dollar didn't really weaken against
other kind of G10 currencies. So um we
think it's more of a broader fiscal
story globally um you see yield curve
steepening uh and that has some impact
on gold versus currencies uh but I don't
think we see really a US dollar kind of
reserve currency trade yet. I brought uh
I'm glad that you brought up gold
because the dollar has depreciated
dramatically against gold and you could
argue that the only reason why you
haven't seen a greater weakening in the
dollar is because nobody else is much
better. I mean, how much is this
absolutely debasement but represented in
gold, not necessarily anything specific
about the dollar as reserve status, but
just generally a change in the global
financial system. Yeah, I think that's
that's the that's there's more to to
that I think going on right now which is
uh uh how we will resolve these fiscal
outlook globally. Uh we see what's
happening in France uh we see Japan uh
the US. So I think it's it's a common
story. Uh the dollar uh sorry the go
gold gold is attractive in that context.
I'm not sure uh you know if it's going
to be a long-term trade uh but clearly
when the gu when when the markets is a
bit more anxious about these questions
uh we see a narrative that bids gold up
it's been playing up. It hasn't worked
for a long time, but it's been working
this year. For sure.
>> You talked about a yield curve
steepening. And the more we talk about
this, the more I question why we're not
seeing an even steeper yield curve, why
we're not seeing even more of a sell-off
in long bonds globally and developed
markets given some of the fiscal
concerns and given frankly this
debasement that we've been talking
about. Does that strike you as odd?
>> Uh I think we're getting uh we might be
getting lucky at this at this uh this
juncture um where uh the US economy
might be weakening just enough. so that
uh this doesn't really come to head just
right now. We were a bit more concerned
coming into September that you would see
you know inflation maybe not behaving.
Uh last time I was here I was talking
about like the the doubts we had about
the ability of the Fed to cut as much as
the market was expecting. U now we are a
bit more confident that the Fed can
deliver. Um the macro is weakening
enough and that's going to help relieve
some of the debt servicing cost tension
that were happening. So we might be for
the next few months or I don't know for
a long in a more of a lucky spot where
uh these concerns are not really coming
to a head but underneath that I totally
agree that there's a bit of a disconnect
and that's why we think longer term
we'll need to see long long-term rates
go up from here and a 10year uh closer
to five makes more sense for us than uh
4% um you know a few years down the
road. John, when you say there's no
evidence right now that the dollar's
reserve currency status is under threat,
what would you see if it was? What would
be happening?
>> I think uh you would So you look at this
year 50 more than 50% of the weakening
that we've seen can be attributed to the
increased easing expectation from the
Fed. So just the interest rate
differential story that we've seen this
year playing out explains a bit explains
a big part of the move. And then uh you
know the the yield curve steepening uh
investor asking more for a term premium
for you know holding debt uh US debt
maybe that has played some role as well
but the point is that if you look at
like how the dollars behave relative to
like term premium the VIX uh or interest
rate differential historically that
relationship hasn't really broken if we
were seeing that relationship bro break
break and the dollar being much weaker
than these fundamentals suggest then I
think that would start to be evidence
that the investors are asking for more
than just the fundamentals um and they
are more worried about the dollar.
>> What signal do you take from the
relationship between gold and risk more
generally the equity market move paired
with the gold move this year?
>> Yeah, I think uh I think there is uh
there's a story around um you know some
concern of fiscal dominance maybe
playing out down the road not a reality
but markets are paying some uh some some
u credence to that but at the same time
before you get there you have an
environment that's going to be pretty
supportive for for equities. So I don't
think there's really a disconnect. It's
a it's an easy financial condition world
maintained for longer bids uh you know
equities but you want to get some
insurance uh with gold.
>> Do you think we on are on the path
towards fiscal dominance in 26? I think
this is a huge call and one things that
I keep saying is it's very in 2025 one
thing that we need to guard against is
like extrapolate from like what looks
very dramatic in the near term to
long-term consequences and big change
right so uh on a day you see some
headlines you can be you can be tempted
to see um I've never would have expected
to see a headline like this so hence
we're going to see fiscal dominance uh
at the same time I think these are big
steps uh there's going to be equilibrium
forces playing out so I think I think
this is something you need to put more
weight on than you would have had
historically. But uh but I don't think
this is a default.
>> Lisa has talked a lot about this. You
look at the Treasury, they've
aggressively shortened duration. The
Federal Reserve under this leadership is
putting a priority on cutting interest
rates or at least a bias to reduce
interest rates even with inflation
around three. Now that might not be
fiscal dominance per se, but maybe the
symptoms of it, the consequences are
similar. There's some crossover here,
which I think speaks to the gold trade,
doesn't it? To some extent at least.
Yeah, I think as long um as long as the
macro picture evolves in a way that uh I
mean it sounds cynical to put it this
way, but like there's a proper cover for
cutting rates uh from a macro
perspective um markets might be
concerned about like what's really the
motivation behind it and whether it's
like but uh as long as we have the proof
of it, I think we're going to run with u
we're not in the fiscal dominance world
just yet. But um yeah, I think it's
going to depend on um if we reach the
point where it's really very hard to
explain uh cutting rates just on the
basis of the macro outlook and and it
looks like we're deviating then I think
it's going to be and I don't want I
don't think it's going to be continuous.
I think there's going to be like a
discontinuity at that point if we get
there.
>> John, it's good to see you.
>> It's great to see you.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you sir.
John Bad there of Black Rockck
overweight US stocks. They're like em
and see gold and Bitcoin as potential
diversifiers. Coming up tomorrow, Keith
Lerner of Truist, Jarrett Cassidy of
RBC, Lisa Shallard of Morgan Stanley,
and Republican Congressman Mike Lawler.
A lot still to come this week from New
York City. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.